mr president, ladies and gentlemen, several member states have been severely affected by bad weather, with devastating consequences for agricultural activity, particularly in the last month of december. portugal is one of these countries, having been hit on 23 december by heavy rains, hail and gusts of wind, which devastated the western regions and the algarve, causing losses of more than eur 80 million and affecting about a thousand farmers who lost their crops and were unable to produce in the near future. for example, the greenhouse crop campaign was irreparably destroyed this year of 2010 and 90% of the infrastructure has no recovery. it is in this context, and also in view of the cyclical nature of natural disasters, which are expected to increase in number and intensity due to climate change; the inadequacy of the support for the lost funds, which is always needed; and the fact that these dramatic situations are not covered by the european union solidarity fund, that we consider it imperative and urgent to establish a european insurance system which ... (the president cut the speaker off)
my colleague mr triantaphyllides has already described the situation in southern italy, in calabria, of the exploitation of foreign labour. i should add that there is a worrying racial element in these issues: black immigrant workers work separately, live separately and have been removed separately by the police after being shot at and urged to leave the town of rosarno in calabria. the questions we must now ask, after some of them are in deportation centres waiting to be deported, is whether the italian authorities acted in good faith in saying they would protect them and now deporting some of them? can we, in good conscience, deport people who have been victims of racial persecution? can the italian republic, a member state of the european union, put an end to an ethnic cleansing that has been started by criminal members of the calabrian mafia n'drangheta? what if it is acceptable that the victims were not even informed of their rights? we must demand a full investigation of these facts and, to that end, some of the victims of the events in rosarno, calabria, cannot be deported.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 october 2008 the european president and the council declared 2010 the year of combating poverty and social exclusion. at that time, the european union had 78 million people at risk of poverty, of whom 19 million were children. today, given the effects of the economic crisis, such as the growth of unemployment, the priority of combating poverty must be reinforced. people and human dignity must be the primary objective of our political action and we cannot accept that there are people in europe who are starving. i therefore believe that the european union must assess its current social situation and, if necessary, increase the financial resources to implement the necessary measures to combat poverty. to do this, we need to have a budget.
mr president, last november the european commission launched a public campaign on the european union strategy to 2020, which will follow up on the so-called lisbon strategy, the objectives of which, as we know, were so much promoted at the time and have not been achieved, as evidenced by the increase in unemployment and poverty. the public consultation lasted until the end of last week, i.e. 15 january, at a time when we are still in the process of hearing the commissioners-designate for the new commission, which will only take office in february. so what is the point of ending a public consultation on such an important document at a time when the new european commission has not yet taken office? it is a question which must be reviewed and for that i ask you, mr president, to give it your full attention and to propose to the european commission that it should review its position.
we also join in the condolences and regret we all express for the tragedy that has befallen the people of haiti and express our full solidarity with them, but we cannot fail to stress certain issues that we consider fundamental. the european union must not allow the united states to take advantage of this catastrophe to re-establish its neocolonialism, as the deployment of thousands of armed american soldiers seems to indicate, forgetting the poverty in which the majority of the population lives, which remains the victim of exploitation by multinationals and external interference, particularly by the united states of america. this is a moment for all the humanitarian support, cooperation and reconstruction aid that the nobility and bravery of the haitian people deserve. remember, it was here that 400,000 africans, enslaved and trafficked by europeans, revolted against slavery and carried out the first great social revolution of that american continent. we must not delay in providing urgent and properly coordinated support, but we must not give in to neo-colonial temptations.
in writing. i express my solidarity with the people of haiti affected by the earthquake that struck the country on 12 january and welcome the eu's commitments to help. the european union is the world's leading donor of humanitarian and development aid. within hours of the disaster, the eu made €3 million available for initial relief operations. eur 134 million was released for the first rehabilitation and reconstruction measures. a further €200 million will be allocated for longer-term rehabilitation, in addition to the €92 million granted by different eu countries. these amounts, totalling eur 429 million, may be further increased depending on the needs assessment. i congratulate the european commission for coordinating the aid, but i regret that the face of the european union has not been sufficiently visible on the ground, damaging the image of the eu in international public opinion, as opposed to the image of the united states which contributed eur 91.6 million. during this crisis, the need for medical care was evident and calls were made for the reinforcement of the medical and healthcare staff and for increased logistical support.
the iranian issue is one of the most important in contemporary international politics. everything must be done to prevent the iranian regime, which has been so harmful to peace and security in the middle east, from gaining access to nuclear weapons. but the role of the european union in relations with iran cannot be limited to the nuclear issue. we have seen, since the rigged elections in june, a popular movement against the repressive, obscurantist and anti-democratic nature of the iranian regime. europe must be consistent in promoting the universal values of human rights because so many are risking their lives on the streets of tehran. without ever calling into question the sovereign right of the people to decide their own destiny, it is imperative that the european union take initiatives that strengthen those fighting for freedom and democracy in iran. and nothing is more decisive than free and alternative media against censorship that all oppressive regimes rely on. in this connection, we look forward to the rapid launch of the farsi television channel, which the european commission has awarded to euronews. in this regard too, we hope that baroness ashton, as the new high representative, will advance creative initiatives that contribute to political openness in iran, taking into account the recommendations of all those who have fought for a free iran, including iranian exiles. it is this concern for the political future of iran which should guide any new sanctions that may be decided in the context of the nuclear issue. as the iranian intellectual akbar ganji has explained here in the european parliament, it is imperative to avoid economic sanctions that weaken the people and in particular the iranian middle class, which is the hard core of the opposition movement. this must be an objective for the european union to take on.
the vast area covering the middle and near east, central asia and north africa, including the red sea and the gulf of aden area - where yemen has a strategic location (alongside somalia) - has long seen powerful geo-strategic interests converge on it. these interests are increasingly defended militarily and with increasing aggressiveness. it is in the light of this reality that the current situation in yemen and the terrible martyrdom to which its people are subjected must be analysed. it is in the light of this reality that the growing military involvement of the us and the eu in the region should be understood and denounced. the cruise missile attack carried out by the united states late last year on a base allegedly belonging to the al-qaeda terrorist network, which resulted in dozens of civilian casualties, is a brutal and shocking expression of this, which we strongly condemn. the real solution to the complex problems and dangers facing the peoples of the region must be found in demilitarisation, respect for the national rights and sovereignty of these peoples and genuine cooperation to solve the profound social problems affecting them.
the democratic gains of the iraqi people, like the security conditions, still need to be consolidated and expanded. it is encouraging that in recent months there has been a reconfiguration of alliances that has done much to overcome the ethno-religious cleavages that have marked iraqi politics in recent years. the success of the new kurdish party "change" is an example of the normalization of iraqi political life. but the recent confirmation by the electoral commission of the exclusion from the lists of some 500 sunni politicians does not favour national reconciliation, may call into question the electoral process and may reignite conflicts. the news about the application of the death penalty is also discouraging. the european leaders, baroness ashton, must work hard to convince the iraqi authorities to abolish it. strengthening eulex is also important in this respect. there are 1.5 million iraqis still in neighboring countries. many will never be able to return. the european states that participated in the 2003 invasion have special responsibilities and should take in more of these refugees. in this respect, as in supporting idps, in human rights issues in general and women's rights in particular, and in the fight against corruption, it is vital that the iraqi government amend the ngo law to allow society to organise freely. it is imperative that the european union promote interaction between iraqi and european ngos. a free and dynamic civil society is an indispensable condition for the consolidation of democracy in iraq.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of workers from the risks arising from ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the committee on international trade, which i have the honour of chairing, has decided to take a position on the ongoing review of the cotonou agreement for two reasons. firstly, because trade is an essential part of relations between the acp countries and the european union. secondly, because the cotonou agreement introduced the new figure of economic partnership agreements, which are essentially trade agreements. that is why we decided to participate with a report of which i am rapporteur. in this report we have witnessed two concerns. firstly, to respect the specific nature of the economic partnership agreements and the parliamentary monitoring institutions they have established, such as cariforum, and secondly, to exploit synergies while respecting the autonomy of both institutions. respect the synergies said i of the eu-acp joint parliamentary assembly and the new interparliamentary institutions of the economic partnership agreements.
this revision of the cotonou agreement introduces issues which are fundamental to sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy. issues such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and education are essential for the development of these countries. global warming may also present an opportunity. the renewable energy costs available to these countries are indispensable for their economic and social development and allow them to move towards energy independence in order to cope with the global crisis. investment in education and training is also key to fighting poverty, unemployment, emigration and brain drain, and contributing to the economic construction of these countries. finally, i would like to make a special mention of the small island states, which have a specific vulnerability and fragility. in this regard, the implementation of the cotonou agreement should take into account the international strategy of mauritius and the barbados action plan, which outline a set of measures to help developing island countries achieve their sustainable development.
mr president, the european parliament is called upon at this very moment to give its opinion on the second revision of the cotonou agreement. let me, however, emphasize the difficulties that haiti is currently facing, calling for international solidarity, action and attention. my first thought goes, of course, to those who have lost their lives and are experiencing truly unexpected hardships. as regards our specific subject, it is well known that cotonou aims to create a framework for cooperation which constitutes a common acp-eu response to globalisation, contributes to peace and security and fosters a democratic political environment. the 2005 review took a number of steps in the right direction. there's still a long way to go. the global economic and financial crisis, the high cost of food and energy and the climate issue warrant a further review. i hope that the european union will maintain and, where possible, increase the levels of aid to the acp countries. i agree with the position that the national parliaments of those countries must be involved in the current and future review processes of the agreement and i reiterate the need to convene them to do so.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the cotonou agreements should lead to a change in the european union's policy on development cooperation and aid. this policy must be geared to genuine cooperation and solidarity and contribute to the promotion of the autonomous and sovereign development of the acp countries. there are many mechanisms which today keep many of these countries in a state of domination and subjugation. the suffocating external debt, which is being repaid several times over and which is nevertheless growing, plays a central role in the establishment of this type of relationship. the european union's push for the implementation of economic partnership agreements - mainly free trade agreements - which is reflected in the current priorities of the european development fund, which needs urgent review, is indicative of the path being followed. a path that seeks to force these countries into new relationships of dependence, to the interests of multinationals, and that leads to the overexploitation of their resources in favour of interests other than those of their peoples. development aid should not be conditional on the implementation of economic partnership agreements. the reservations and objections of the acp countries must be respected, as must the priorities they have set.
the european union is on two legs: on the one hand, the member states and, on the other, the citizens, who are represented in this house by their elected representatives. it is often the case that after the states have solved their problems, after they have put their judicial systems in place, after they have put their police systems in communication, they forget to deal with everything else and they forget to justify, to create a basis of trust between the citizens of the european union. this is one of those cases. the european mandate, of course, makes things quicker and makes life easier for the judicial systems in the european union. however, other rights, such as those of translation and interpretation (on which i had the pleasure and honour of working with mrs ludford), are essential for european citizens to feel confident when dealing with the judicial systems of other member states. i am pleased to join my colleagues in asking the commission and the council to produce, as quickly as possible, texts which, through the codecision procedure, can advance this process in other procedural rights in criminal proceedings.
mr president, minister lópez garrido will not mind if vice-president barrot has the first word. i do not know whether we will have the opportunity to be with him in this plenary before the new commission comes into force and so i would like, as a precaution, to thank him for the effort, intelligence and spectacular collaboration he has had with the european parliament in this area of justice and home affairs. i would like to say that i would like to add my voice to those who think that this is a very important area. we do not want to build a europe of security alone. we also want to build the europe of justice, and that is why all initiatives relating to procedural rights are essential. we must take steps to support the victims and respect the rights of citizens who are brought to justice. i think that is a message that stands out with two very clear appeals: one to the council, following what graham watson said, better than i did. it is absurd that after eight years we are still at this stage of the process and only in respect of certain types of rights. we must be more expeditious, more rapid, and it is the task of the council and parliament and commissioner barrot to make his colleague, the next commissioner, the next commissioner, aware of this. the commission must take the initiative in all other areas which have to do with procedural rights, and not just those relating to language and translation.
mr president, the moment we are living in should imply a fundamental change in the policies and priorities of the european union. when unemployment reaches alarming figures, with more than 24 million unemployed and an increase of more than 5 million in the last year alone, which has also contributed to the worsening of poverty, which now affects more than 80 million people, a pact for development and social progress is needed, which focuses on production, particularly agricultural and industrial, on employment with rights and social inclusion, instead of returning to the stability pact, as the president-in-office did, and to neoliberal liberalizations and revenues. we have already seen that they have contributed to increasing inequalities, to favouring the gains and profits of economic and financial groups, while on average more than 21% of young people are unemployed in the european union, one in five children lives in poverty and discrimination against women is on the increase again. so the challenge is to break with these current policies... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr zapatero, i think you know as well as i do that the growth of production in europe will be slow and mediocre for the next few years. that is why i cannot understand why you insist on returning to the stability pact in its orthodox form, i.e. with a reduction in public investment and social spending. i would also like to ask you about the silences in your speech. why was there no word on tax havens? why has there been no mention of the resistance of some member states to the end of banking secrecy? why has there not been a word for a genuine european initiative to tax financial transactions? the question i ask you is, why is economic justice, a little economic justice, always outside your commitments?
mr president, mr president of the spanish government, mr president of the commission, i would like to make it clear that there are certain ambiguities in your speech here, particularly on the economic front. the intentions and declarations of intent are good, but there are some ambiguities. in particular, there are no concrete measures to combat unemployment. but despite this reservation, i would like to focus my speech on the institutional level. the spanish presidency speaks a great deal on the question of the popular initiative. it speaks of the rapid and short installation of the external action service system. i think that, at the institutional level, it was also important, since we are at the beginning of the lisbon treaty, to make some comments on relations with the other institutions. and what i think would be very important is that there should be on the one hand a clear will on the part of the council and on the part of the spanish presidency to collaborate with the commission and parliament, an attempt to clarify how relations between the commission and parliament will develop in the context of the lisbon treaty, because the spanish presidency has a unique opportunity here, which is the opportunity to set precedents. what the spanish presidency does in all its relations with the commission, parliament and even the president of the european council - what it does can have a decisive influence on the success of the lisbon treaty. i would therefore like to hear you more clearly about how you see the relationship between the rotating presidency, the commission, parliament and the council presidency.
i am glad to have the opportunity to say that josé luis zapatero has not ceased to surprise european women with measures of great innovation and progress. of course, for the formation of a truly equal government and the courageous way in which it has brought the issues of gender equality and respect for the other to the national and european agenda. mr president, i warmly congratulate you on your ambitious programme of action against gender-based violence, which is a social scourge. the creation of a european observatory on gender-based violence is a cutting-edge proposal which european women support and applaud. mr president, on behalf of the portuguese socialists, i wish you the best of luck. you can count on our solidarity. the women with the shoemaker!
in writing. i wish the spanish presidency every success. it is the first member state to shape the new institutional model resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is hoped that the priority already stated by prime minister josé luis rodríguez zapatero 'to take europe out of the crisis and consolidate the recovery of economic growth' will be achieved, and that the fight against climate change and the defence of energy security will continue. it is also important to adopt an integrated forestry policy and improve water management efficiency. in this european year against poverty and at a time of economic crisis, we expect to see strengthened policies for the most vulnerable. i hope that the member states and the european institutions will cooperate so that the eu is more prosperous, more united and has a stronger voice on the international scene. i also hope that relations between portugal and spain will be strengthened under this presidency. we all know the interdependence and interconnectedness between our economies. a good sign of the joining of efforts is, for example, the iberian centre for nanotechnology in braga, which will enable scientific research, innovation and knowledge to develop and will lead to the strengthening of the competitiveness of our companies.
the spanish presidency comes at a strategic moment for europe. the timing of the programme coincides with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which raises the need for accountability for the effective implementation of the new treaty, an essential condition for the development of the lines of its programme. i look forward to promoting the debate on the future of cohesion policy, and seeking to include territorial cohesion in it. as a member of the european parliament from an outermost region, i am focusing my attention on the action of the new presidency on the policy of developing island regions. the eu-morocco summit will undoubtedly be a privileged forum for the dynamisation of the euro-african atlantic area, particularly through cooperation between madeira, the azores, the canary islands and the neighbouring countries, which will receive my full commitment. because of their historical and geographical proximity, portugal, and in particular its outermost regions such as madeira, are enthusiastic about the spanish presidency's intentions to implement and develop a renewed european strategy in favour of these regions. in this context, the presidency's lines of action in implementing the commission's recommendations the outermost regions: an asset for europe and the discussion of the future financial perspective are subjects which i shall be following closely.
in writing. − in a europe that is ever closer to its citizens and more at the service of the european people, it is essential that they can exercise effective control over the union's institutions and bodies. this is precisely where the role of the european ombudsman is indispensable, since it is to him that citizens report administrative irregularities, discrimination, abuse of power or absence or refusal to answer a specific question put to an institution or body of the european union. in this context, i welcome the election of the new european ombudsman for the next five years, and hope that his mandate will be guided by the founding values of the european union freedom and justice , ensuring that european citizens have better institutions and effective control over their functioning, for a stronger, fairer and more united union.
in writing. − the european ombudsman, on his own initiative or following a complaint, acts to combat instances of maladministration by the community institutions and bodies. in this way, the ombudsman contributes to the construction of a people's europe at a time when the treaty of lisbon has entered into force and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union has acquired binding legal force. it should be noted that the right to good administration is a fundamental right of european citizens, safeguarded by article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in 2001, the european parliament adopted a resolution on a code of good administrative behaviour to be respected by the institutions and bodies of the european union and by their administrations. i would like to see this code become a european law, which would bring legislative coherence to the eu and would guarantee that the same basic principles are applied by its institutions in their relations with citizens. it is important that european citizens know their rights and how to protect and restore them in the event of a breach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the autonomous regions of the azores and madeira, as it aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the economic operators in the azores (manufacturers, distributors, wholesalers and retailers) and thus to ensure more stable employment in the azores and thus overcome the economic disadvantages which are felt as a result of their geographical situation. this temporary suspension of duties, allowing local economic operators in the azores and madeira to import a certain number of raw materials, parts, components and finished products duty-free, and covering sectors such as fisheries, agriculture, industry and services, provides a favourable environment for long-term investment by investors. these measures will also help to help smes and local farmers to invest and create jobs in the outermost regions, and in the context of the current economic crisis, the need for specific measures to stimulate economic activity and stabilise employment is paramount.
in writing. - the development of the outermost regions is seriously hampered by factors such as their structural social and economic situation, remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence. it is therefore essential that the european union continue to look at these regions, identifying problems and potential, studying their differences and fragility, with a view to implementing policies and measures appropriate to their economic and social development. i welcome the proposal for a council regulation because of the incentive it represents for sustainable development and the integration of the outermost regions into the world economy. the temporary suspension of common customs tariff duties allows the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores to overcome the economic disadvantages arising from their geographical situation and at the same time to respond to the specific effects they are experiencing due to the economic crisis. i welcome the initiative of the regional authorities of madeira and the azores and their commitment to contribute to the development strategy of these regions, while contributing to a competitive european union capable of sustainable economic development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores. this suspension will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of local economic operators and will contribute to creating and maintaining jobs in the outermost regions, countering the economic disadvantages resulting from their geographical situation, without affecting the consolidation of the internal market or the principle of free competition in the eu.
in writing. - in order to strengthen the competitiveness of economic operators in the portuguese autonomous regions of madeira and the azores and thus to ensure more stable employment in those islands, i consider it essential to introduce temporary suspensions of autonomous customs duties. that suspension will allow local economic operators in madeira and the azores to import raw materials, parts, components and finished products duty-free, provided that such products are used locally for their production or processing activities. the approval of this derogation is essential for the development of these portuguese autonomous regions, both of which are highly dependent on the tourism industry and therefore highly subject to the volatility of this sector of activity and, as such, limited in their full economic development by the characteristics of their local economy and their geographical location. in this sense, any incentive for local industries is certainly a necessary support for the improvement of the living conditions of the local population and a way of enabling the creation of employment on the islands, which is essential to fixing the populations and creating conditions for development.
in writing. the temporary suspension of common customs tariff duties will allow local economic operators in the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores to import a certain number of raw materials, parts, components and finished products duty-free. the raw materials will have to be used for agricultural purposes and for processing and industrial maintenance in the autonomous regions. this suspension will be in force until 31 december 2019 and mechanisms are in place to prevent unfair competition from arising. this will strengthen the competitiveness of smes and farmers in our autonomous regions of madeira and the azores. this measure takes account of the specific characteristics of these outermost regions and stimulates economic activity, contributing to the stabilisation of employment. the local economies of madeira and the azores depend to a large extent on national and international tourism, which has been affected by the current economic crisis. the suspension is therefore fully justified and is expected to have a positive impact on the economic development of these regions. i call for a more rapid analysis and decision-making in such cases, so that a more effective and timely response can be made. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the regional authorities of madeira and the azores have requested the introduction of a temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products in order to strengthen and ensure more stable productivity and employment in these outermost regions. we agree with the content of the proposals in the document. we believe, however, that components used for industrial purposes, in particular in the field of energy and the environment, in addition to the agricultural purposes indicated in the regulation, such as parts and components for the energy industry, in particular for so-called clean energy (wind, solar, etc.) could still be considered.
in writing. − the suspension until 2019 of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores is, at this time of global economic crisis, very important in these outermost regions of the eu. it is essential to help smes and local farmers to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and thus to ensure more stable employment in these regions.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's position on the suspension for a period of 10 years of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of products into the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores, and also the report by mrs danuta maria hübner that: 2. create conditions for stimulating economic activity and employment in the archipelagos, thus also contributing to demographic stability in the islands. this is an example of the cohesion of a european union built on the imperative of the principle of solidarity.
in writing. − the development of the outermost regions is determined by their peripheral location, insularity, difficult climate and geography and economic dependence on a small number of goods and services. the regulation we are voting on today will allow madeira and the azores to import a range of finished products for agricultural, commercial or industrial use, as well as raw materials, parts and components used for agricultural purposes, industrial processing or maintenance, benefiting from a duty-free regime until the end of 2019. it also extends this derogation to the whole territory of the two regions, not just to their free zones, thus benefiting all types of local economic operators. i would remind you that this dossier has been subjected to a simplified legislative procedure in order to make it more rapid, according to which the rapporteur of the proposal is the chairman of the parliamentary committee himself, and the proposal is therefore put to the vote in plenary without debate. i am very pleased with the final result, which incorporates the amendments i proposed, which concerned a set of products intended to equip the madeira free trade area, which consisted of a 2000 regulation that had expired in 2008, as well as additional applications submitted in 2008 and 2009 that did not form part of the commission's original proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the acp-eu partnership agreement because i thought that it contained the key elements to be taken into account in the ongoing negotiations. the coherence of the various european policies - trade, development, agriculture and fisheries - must be the basic principle of our relationship with this bloc of developing countries. the new reality of strategic partnership agreements must be taken into account. these agreements, which are essentially commercial, create new platforms for parliamentary dialogue which must be respected. the new challenges we face, such as climate change and the economic crisis, must be met with responses that are contained in the new cotonou agreement, which is expected to be finalised in march. i also think it is important that the proximity and specific nature of the outermost regions with the acp countries can be integrated into the european strategy for relations with them. the octs could be the eu's preferred intermediary in economic partnership agreements. the octs give a special dimension to the eu's external action, thus contributing to the development of a genuine enlarged neighbourhood policy.
in writing. - i express my support for the draft report on the second revision of the cotonou agreement, which introduces fundamental issues for sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy. issues such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and cooperation in education are essential for the economic and social development of acp countries. global warming, which mainly affects developing countries, could also present an opportunity. the renewable energy resources available to these countries are indispensable for their economic and social development and enable them to move towards energy independence in order to cope with the global crisis. equally, investment in education and training is key to combating unemployment, illegal immigration and brain drain, contributing to the acp countries' own economic construction and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the second review of the acp-eu partnership agreement, arguing for adjustments to meet the major challenges of the day, such as climate change, the financial crisis and the food crisis. i welcome the support given by this parliament to the call of the acp group to see climate change addressed as a cross-cutting issue in the second cotonou review. however, i regret that the parliaments (european parliament, pan-african parliament and national parliaments of the acp countries) have not had the opportunity to contribute proposals and to participate actively with the member states in the decision-making process in the revision of this important agreement.
in writing. - i hope that the second review of the cotonou agreement will help to promote sustainable development in the acp countries so that it will allow social cohesion and the fight against poverty. the effects of the crisis are being felt most acutely in the acp countries. these effects, combined with climate change, are becoming even more severe. the question of food sovereignty is crucial in this context. endogenous resources must be used appropriately and the development of renewable energies must be encouraged. it is important to ensure that all acp countries benefit from a trade framework which is at least equivalent to the situation previously in force. i also support the idea that the edf (european development fund), which supports development cooperation policy under this agreement, should be integrated into the budgetary powers of the european parliament. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, we too believe that the second revision of the cotonou agreement is an opportune moment to make adjustments. the report sets out principles which, if applied, would be a step forward in improving the agreement, such as the defence of acp countries' food sovereignty and security and the fight against tax havens. at the same time, it denounces some important aspects, such as the attempt to move towards an increasing regionalization of acp-eu relations, because of the threat it poses to the coherence and strength of the acp group. however, in other respects the report falls short of what is needed. the relations of dependence and subordination to which the acp countries are subject and the role of the current policy of cooperation and development aid in establishing these relations - a central issue - are not adequately addressed. the commission is also aware of the consequences which may arise in this context from the implementation of the economic partnership agreements proposed by the eu. the reservations and objections which have been raised by several acp countries should have been taken into account in the report. the same applies to the priorities they set for the european development fund, for example.
in writing. - the recent tragedy in haiti is proof that partnership agreements are not enough to solve problems. the second revision of the cotonou agreement is therefore a unique opportunity to make adjustments in the face of current challenges, such as climate change, the sharp rise in food and oil prices, the financial crisis and extreme poverty in several acp countries. it is therefore time to take measures to effectively resolve the various problems which continue to affect the vast majority of the countries concerned.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is unacceptable to say that we have to wait for the language versions, when we know that there are several versions published in the press after leaks to the press. we were presented with a draft of the agreement on a friday in brussels when the members of parliament had come from strasbourg. there was only one member present in brussels. in this case, it was me. it is also unacceptable that the bruguière report is referred to repeatedly, a secret report, as if it were convincing, when those who read the bruguière report know that it has practically no empirical data. it is unacceptable to say that this is a provisional agreement when the data collected over the next nine months will be in the hands of the american administration for five years. not just an obama administration, but maybe a sarah palin administration as well. which european citizen feels safe? they leave us no choice but to reject this agreement, as is obvious, and they have not made life easy for us. however, we will be doing the commission a favour by rejecting it, because we have two new commissioners, mrs malmström and mrs reading, who will certainly know how to negotiate the best deal from scratch and i know they are keen to do so.
mr president, in view of the urgency, what we saw in copenhagen was a step backwards. copenhagen certainly mobilized more heads of state than kyoto, but it also created more divisions, and as a result, what happened was that we had a situation of each for himself, where each state can define what its goals are and, on top of that, a voluntary regime. to mention that we have a 2°c target or funding targets without any clarification, which can also be of no consolation. so what i think is that we have to act in terms of the future, and acting in terms of the future is to move from rhetoric to action. the european union has always wanted to be a leader, it has always said so. but when we arrived in copenhagen, he hesitated, did not define or defend the goals which he said here were his goals and which he would not abandon. so what i ask is whether we will not be more just in the future, whether we will continue to allow, at the expense of this failure and of decisions taken by one another, the poorest to continue to pay the heaviest bill.
mr president, in the failure of copenhagen, the united states and the european union, respectively the world's first and second largest emitters in terms of per capita emissions, have particular and inescapable responsibilities, which no attempt to shift the blame onto others will erase. among other things, the summit failed to finance the so-called adaptation in the developing countries because of the inadequacy of the commitments made. at the same time, the constraints on these countries, such as the enormous external debt, which, compared with the announced financing, is truly astronomical and a very strong limitation on any real possibility of sustainable economic and social development, continue to be hypocritically ignored. the summit failed to seriously discuss the perverse results of the market instruments and the flexibility mechanisms of the kyoto protocol. among other things, the summit failed to address the causes of climate change beyond its effects, an irrational system of economic and social organization, within which no solution will be found to this or other problems facing humanity ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam minister, the copenhagen conference ended with a result that was far from what was expected. the countries took note of a document whose objectives are unclear and non-binding. copenhagen was much more than a climate summit. a new balance of forces has been created at world level and the role of multilateralism in the united nations system itself. the growing influence of the emerging countries was noticeable. the copenhagen conference has shown that europe's role in the world must be re-examined. it will be necessary to use the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty to prepare the way for the next cop, with ambition, speaking with one voice, making strategic alliances. the copenhagen outcome provides a basis for further work. the eu should seek to ensure that the next steps in the negotiations build on the copenhagen accord with a view to reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year. it should also contribute to the implementation of the provisions on financing for developing countries in the areas of forests, technology transfer and adaptation measures. at the internal level, europe also has a big task ahead: implementing the energy and climate package, investing in clean technologies, scientific research, energy efficiency, betting on a new industrial policy based on the efficiency of natural resources and innovation, promoting a policy of low-carbon cities, transport and sustainable mobility. only then can you lead, because true leadership is based on example.
it has been said here, and it is true, that the copenhagen conference was a disappointment, that not even a politically binding agreement was able to be adopted. but now we must look ahead and we must make good political preparations, because technically the european union had already done so, but good political preparations for the mexico conference. the european union must regain its leadership and make itself heard with one voice. the treaty of lisbon will help, it will allow europe to assert itself and speak with one voice with the authority of those who have done their homework. we also hope that the spanish presidency will, when we get to the meeting in bonn, ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
in writing. i support the joint motion for a resolution on the recent attacks on christian communities because it strongly condemns all forms of violence, discrimination and intolerance on the basis of religion and belief. i consider it vital to support all initiatives aimed at promoting dialogue and mutual respect between communities and seeking to guarantee fundamental rights such as freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
men and women all over the world continue to suffer the most brutal forms of persecution simply because they believe in the god that is worshiped from the atlantic to the urals. the european parliament, after china, india, iraq, pakistan, turkey and vietnam, among others, today denounces the persecution of christians in egypt and malaysia. europe is watching all this with relative indifference. some even invoke respect for the culture and freedom of others to worship in defense of this inaction. the silence on this subject, which is truly astonishing in a europe of christian faith-infused motherland, culture and traditions, threatens to become deafening. i would remind you of the words of the cardinal archbishop of bologna, who spoke of past persecutions and who perfectly illustrates the spirit of our times: 'they are more concerned about the future of the polar bears than the threatened lives of thousands of christians.'
in writing. human rights violations in china have been recurrent and cannot but be condemned. the fact that the eu is one of china's main economic partners increases our responsibility to condemn all actions that violate the rights of any citizen and especially those who defend freedom of expression and human rights in this country. it is very important that the people's republic of china respects and honours the commitments it has made to the human rights council.
the philippines, mr president, was a great hope for the whole world just over two decades ago when it started a democratic wave in asia which allowed us to gain hope in human rights in that area. to gain hope for increases in workers' rights, student rights, population rights and electoral and democratic normality in those countries. we cannot now allow the distraction of the world to allow the situation of democracy in the philippines to deteriorate. there have been very disturbing aspects in recent years, of corruption and, in particular, of violence and direct harassment of the opposition during the elections. the most disturbing of all was the massacre in maguindanao, mentioned in our resolution, in which 46 people were killed, who were part of the electoral caravan of the opposition candidate, mr mangudadatu, and who were apparently massacred - this caravan - by a group of people linked to the clan that dominates the province of maguindanao, the ampatuan clan. among other things, i would like to draw attention to the fact that 30 journalists were killed in this massacre. it's the biggest massacre of journalists in the history of the world. we cannot allow - and apparently the house itself is distracted from what is being talked about here, which is a shame - we cannot allow the distraction of the world to allow the philippines to slide into a situation where it is no longer known as the best example of democracy, as it was two and a half decades ago, but as the worst. it is urgent to investigate this massacre, it is urgent to demand that president gloria arroyo, whose party is the ampatuan clan, carry out the investigations to the end, and it is important that the philippines know that europe is watching and following developments in that country.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusions of the european council of 18-19 june 2009 calling on the european commission to draw up a european strategy for the danube region by 2011 and i express my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution presented here. the danube region faces a number of challenges and a strategy for the region will improve connectivity and communication systems, preserve the environment and foster growth, job creation and security. it is important that the commission builds on the operational experience gained with the baltic sea strategy and builds on the determination of the governments and citizens of the member states and regions to overcome urgent and common challenges. it is also important to make this strategy compatible with the eu strategy 2020 and the commission's report entitled 'regions 2020' in order to address the major challenges facing europe such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change and energy (use and supply). i also urge parliament to develop a process of reflection on the future of european cohesion policy and to think of new strategic possibilities for other regions with a view to adapting them to the changes and new pressures of a global world.
- firmly believing that the full development of the european union can only be achieved by policies which are appropriate to the development of all its regions, while respecting their differences, needs and specificities; whereas territorial cohesion implies the creation of different strategies for different regions, promoting sustainable development in a context of respect for the environment and economic exploitation of their potential; whereas macro-regional strategies are intended to promote, with existing resources, the balanced regional development of the union; the european union has a long history of supporting the danube region, and the european union is committed to supporting the danube region.
in writing. - this resolution advocates a strategy for the danube region with a territorial logic structured by this important river and promotes the sustained and integrated development of a region covering 14 european countries. the strategy envisaged will enable a coordinated and integrated policy to achieve synergies, promote cohesion, foster economic growth and competitiveness, while protecting the environment. the modernisation of ports, the improvement of the navigability of the river with freight corridors and interconnection and intermodality with the north sea, the improvement of its water quality, the protection of the whole danube basin and, in particular, of the ecosystems that make up the natura 2000 network are objectives to be achieved and made compatible. the commission should therefore quickly launch a broad consultation process with all the countries along the danube so that the strategy can be defined by the end of the year and be compatible with the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − we agree to the creation of a strategy for the danube region, based on prior consultation and cooperation between the countries and regions along its riverbed, which promotes economic and social cohesion in these regions and, without prejudice to the former, promotes territorial cohesion. the strategy presented calls for the improvement of the ecological situation of the danube and the drawing up of a comprehensive plan for the conservation and restoration of natural stocks. it also shows itself to be a positive strategy in the proposal to improve the multicultural environment of the danube region, cultural dialogue, and the protection of cultural and historical heritage. we believe, as stated in the document, that the implementation of this strategy should not interfere with the powers of regional and local governments and should be based on a basis of cooperation between the countries and regions that coexist in this region.
in writing. − given the strategic importance of the danube region due to its location, it is very important to strengthen relations with all the countries in the region, with particular emphasis on those which are not yet members of the eu, so that in the future they may integrate it into an enlargement effort. it is therefore crucial that all the recommendations adopted in this motion for a resolution are implemented so that by the end of 2010 there is a proposal for an eu strategy for the danube region.
mr president, i would like to denounce what is happening in portugal at the moment, where it is clear that the media have brought to light a government plan to control the newspapers, to control television stations, to control radio stations, which calls into question freedom of expression. just this week a well-known journalist, mario crespo, saw his own column censored at the suggestion - or apparent suggestion - of the prime minister. in view of this, prime minister josé sócrates must give substantial explanations to the country, he must explain that he is not dominating, curtailing, censoring freedom of expression in portugal. the way things are going, portugal is no longer a state governed by the rule of law, it is a formal state governed by the rule of law where the prime minister is limited to formalities, procedures, and formalities and does not want to give any substantive explanations. we want a material rule of law for portugal!
mr president, the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, for which my colleague from the azores, maria do céu patrão neves, is rapporteur, is a unique opportunity for a debate on a sector which is of great importance in balancing the local development of the outermost regions. madeira is following the current discussion with particular interest and considers it imperative that a distinction be proposed between artisanal and industrial fleets which should benefit from different fishing regimes. it is essential to uphold the principle of positive discrimination in limiting access to territorial waters within the exclusive economic zone to local artisanal fleets only. in madeira, priority is given to supporting the modernisation of vessels and to management that ensures the long-term conservation of a comprehensive group of species. only then will we be able to avoid situations which are unsustainable for the economic, environmental and social balance. finally, we will strive to ensure that fisheries in the outermost regions receive permanent and undated support.
mr president, in recent weeks we have seen the intensification of an insidious ideological campaign around the measures to be taken by the states to balance public finances. it is no coincidence that many of those responsible for the current economic and social crisis are protagonists in this campaign. as in the past, they advocate new attacks on wages, social and labour rights, and the social functions of the state. the response to this offensive was given last week by tens of thousands of portuguese workers, who demonstrated in the streets demanding wage increases to replace the purchasing power lost over the last decade and conditions worthy of retirement. the balance of public accounts must be achieved in line with economic growth and by correcting the serious inequalities in the distribution of wealth which are at the root of the crisis. the workers' struggle, their progressive drive, is today a sign of hope and the most solid reason for confidence in a better future.
hey, buddy, i just wanted to ask you something. in your opinion, what does the automatic exchange of tax information have to do with the end of confidentiality? when one thing is clearly distinct from another. most countries in europe don't have bank secrecy. there are automatic mechanisms for the flow of information between tax authorities and the wealth of each individual is not exposed on the internet. can't you separate the two?
mr president, this debate is very important because what the governments and the commission itself have told us is that in the coming years the way out of the crisis depends on programmes of radical cuts in public investment and social spending. and what the information contained in the various reports that are being discussed here today tells us is that there is another way, there is a better way, a way that can satisfy the taxpayers, the honest taxpayers! and that is the way to act against the crisis also on the revenue side - mainly on the revenue side - by ending the hell of tax havens and ending the hell of widespread tax evasion and fraud between big companies and the banking system. and that is exactly why i very much agree with the domenici report when it says that we are not going far enough in the matter of ending banking secrecy. and that's where we have to go, because honestly, a little economic justice never hurt anyone.
mr president, in dealing with these four reports, which seem to have a very strong technical structure, we are discussing deep political problems. firstly, and to be clear: the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion must always be done. out of respect for the taxpayers who pay and play by the rules. i would also like to make it clear that this is not a matter that specifically concerns any crisis. this is a matter of public ethics. and just as this subject must be discussed, so too the european union and the member states must discuss another subject, which has to do with fiscal competitiveness, with how we can, through tax policy, make economies grow. and it is also necessary to look at the fight against fraud and tax evasion as a matter of legislation. the laws need to be simple. the laws must be transparent and the administrative bodies must act in a proper manner. and that is why the question of the exchange of information is relevant, where we must also look at what determinations have been made by international organizations which have long looked at this matter, such as the oecd. the exchange of experience is essential in this respect, so that measures which are very good in theory do not have practical effects which are perverse. as regards tax havens specifically, we must support the g20 resolutions and the developments that have taken place there, and, above all, we must bear in mind that measures in this area must be appropriate, proportionate and effective.
mr president, commissioner, a few facts to remember: according to the oecd, in 2008, five to seven trillion euros in assets were located in tax havens. in the european union, tax evasion, which has already been mentioned here today, amounts to 2 to 2.5% of the wealth of the union, that is to say, it is twice the budget of the european union. and today, there is no doubt that tax havens, the opacity of new financial products, the lack of administrative cooperation, the failures of regulation and supervision in the markets and the excessive ambition of operators have contributed to the terrible crisis we are experiencing. globally, there are movements that are happening, and we are learning lessons, lessons that have taken shape in the initiatives of the international monetary fund, the oecd, the g20, the financial stability forum. in the european union, particularly under the guidance of mr kovács, whom i welcome, there have been a number of initiatives: administrative cooperation, the savings directive, assistance in debt recovery, a code of conduct, as well as moves towards increased cooperation from belgium, austria, luxembourg, the isle of man and even from neighbouring countries: switzerland, monaco, liechtenstein. but it is important that in this collective effort there should not be what was so well described by our compatriot mr domenici, when he says in leopard that a lot had to change in order for everything to remain the same. this can't be happening! european citizens are today being plagued by unemployment, by threats of tax increases, by the loss of fundamental pension rights. small and mediumsized enterprises are unable to obtain credit and the sacrifices are widespread. it is these citizens who expect us - their representatives here in parliament - to learn from the lessons and to make the european union a truly competitive area, with fairness, transparency and seriousness. these four reports, in particular domenici and alvarez, are in that direction. and i hope that these reports will receive massive support from the members of this parliament and that they will indeed give the political impetus that the european union needs to draw the right lessons and make them felt at international level too.
madam president, in portugal opel had a large factory in azambuja which once employed some 2000 workers, but it closed the plant, abandoned production in portugal and moved it to spain, leaving behind a trail of unemployment for thousands of workers who were directly or indirectly affected by this opel strategy. it is recorded that he did not do this because of the wages, which in portugal were lower than in spain, but because of a strategy of concentration of production, indifferent to the social consequences of his decision. it is therefore necessary to take account of all these aspects of opel's history and to take effective action in monitoring its activity. it is necessary to take account of the fact that in the case of state aid to multinationals, action must be taken to defend industrial production, the rights of workers and the populations of the areas affected, and to ensure that trade unions and other workers' representatives can intervene effectively.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, as reality shows and as eurostat itself confirms, the economic and social crisis is seriously affecting women. it is unemployment that keeps on increasing, it is precarious and low-paid work, with the wage gap between men and women growing again and exceeding, on average, 17% at the level of the european union. it is poverty resulting either from low wages and incomes, including pensions and pensions for elderly women, or from difficulty in accessing quality public services at low cost or free of charge. the situation of trafficking and prostitution of women and girls, violence at work and at home, the multiple discriminations against women in the most vulnerable situations. the report stresses the need to give special attention to the economic and social situation of women in the formulation of community policies, and calls for a study of the social impact of new community strategies, in order to avoid further aggravation of discrimination and inequalities, to ensure equality in social progress and not in the reduction of economic, social and labour rights, and to protect the social role of motherhood and fatherhood. it is urgent to focus on a genuine strategy for development and social progress that gives priority to employment with rights, production, quality public services and social inclusion. it is time to take significant steps to improve the lives of the majority of women, including in the area of sexual and reproductive health, and to end the hypocrisy that still persists on the issue of abortion.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and i hope that the proposals contained in this resolution will be adopted. in the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, we have seen that poverty is increasingly a female issue. the majority of the 80 million or so poor in europe are women and children. with the economic and social crisis, women are the ones who suffer the most. women are the last to enter the labour market and the first to go unemployed, he adds, adding that the gender pay gap was 15% in 2004 and is over 17% in 2009. i would like to draw attention to and ask for the support of my colleagues for some proposals which i consider to be innovative and very important: the creation of the european charter of women's rights, which we so badly need, as has already been mentioned here, the proposal for a directive on preventing and combating all forms of violence against women, domestic violence and trafficking in women, the introduction of paternity leave, which is already in place in the overwhelming majority of member states, in european legislation in order to promote the reconciliation of professional, family and personal life and to stimulate birth rates. i would like to end by thanking commissioner spidla for all he has done to promote gender equality and for his collaboration with the european parliament. i wish you the very best, commissioner.
mr president, i would like to ask you, mr barroso, about your sense of responsibility in the light of the events that have put the euro under attack by speculators. we shall discuss the causes of this phenomenon in more detail later this afternoon, but i would like to focus on the statements made by mr joaquín almunia, because they were the ones that caused the immediate rise in spreads and interest rates on international credit to portugal and spain, further weakening the position of the euro itself last week. you don't have to tell me that joaquin almunia didn't say what he said. what the journalists heard was what the speculators heard, and they wasted no time. president barroso, the role of a commissioner is not to put gasoline on the fire. this house cannot endorse a man who, at a critical moment, has failed to live up to his responsibilities. that's the first problem, the second is the signals. in the face of the attack on the greek, spanish and portuguese public debts, what have the european institutions done so far? mr trichet merely said that no state should be given special treatment, when the message should be exactly the opposite, that is to say to the speculators that they will not divide us because this is a europe of solidarity. this is the political question that is being asked and that is why we expect serious answers to what has happened with the statements of your candidate for commissioner.
mr president, mr president of the commission, i was particularly attentive to the hearings of the commissioners-designate for agriculture and fisheries, areas which i follow with particular attention in the european parliament. your profile, in both cases, seems appropriate to me. however, more important than personalities and competences is the political conditions they will have to fulfil their mission. so that my group and i can consciously vote for the commission, can you give me, mr president, the assurance that you will give your full support to these two commissioners, so that the profound reforms which are about to be initiated in the most common policies, agriculture and fisheries, will take account of the maintenance of their community character, refusing any renationalisation?
mr president, i would like to emphasize to the commission and to the president of the commission how they have worked with this parliament during these months of investiture. there is no body in the world, with executive and legislative powers, which is subject to its president presenting a programme to parliament, to being heard by all the parliamentary groups, to a vote by an absolute majority, to having all the commissioners come here to be heard one by one, on their own programme, with three to four hours of direct questions, questions with answers. the commission has agreed to negotiate a framework agreement with parliament, in which it has agreed, firstly, to justify and extend parliament's powers in the context of legislative initiative, has accepted the principle of full access to information, both in legislative and political action and in international negotiations, and has agreed to take account of parliament's opinion on the commissioners, on the reshaping of the commissioners. this means, once and for all, in my view, that the commission has shown, since july, that it is prepared to have a close link with parliament and that in doing so it has clearly, clearly and unequivocally demonstrated that the strategic alliance of the lisbon treaty for the community method, which was mentioned by mr saryusz-wolski, is the alliance between parliament and the commission. the commission and the framework agreement therefore deserve the full support of the epp.
in writing. with the institutional problem solved by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the new commission elected, a new stage of the union begins. a new cycle that is ambitious in its capacity for initiative and in its anticipation of the great problems of our time. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. a new cycle of european leadership on the big issues of the day and of adequate response to the challenges of the future. a new cycle in the construction of a fairer and more united europe. the new college of commissioners, in the light of the evidence given during the hearings, has the necessary conditions to meet the needs of the present. it is a balanced commission, which reconciles the experience of the old with the newness of half its members. and it's also balanced in gender representation, as it has a third of women, a little more than the previous one. the balance of power between the three institutions does not weaken anyone, but strengthens europe.
in writing. in presenting the new european commission, president barroso presented a programme which is the continuation of the neoliberal, federalist and militarist policy of the old commission. the college of commissioners you have put forward will follow the same guidelines as we have seen during the hearings in the committees of parliament. we are going to have a period of proposals for deepening the european capitalist integration we are living through. the previous commission has already left a lot of work in place, including the broad lines and the so-called public consultation on the strategy that will follow on from the so-called lisbon strategy. for now, they call it the eu 2020 strategy, but they say it will be used to 'put it into practice: exploiting existing instruments through a new approach'. so what we know already is that we're going to have more of the same. they ignore the need to take stock of the implementation of the measures taken in the name of the lisbon strategy and the degree to which the objectives proclaimed at the time have been achieved or the consequences of the implementation of the stability pact. they pointed out that we have more than 23 million unemployed people in the eu, particularly young people, whose unemployment rate is already over 21%, and more than 85 million people living in poverty. we can only vote against this new commission.
in writing. - i welcome the draft resolution adopted today on a new political framework agreement governing institutional relations between the european commission and the european parliament and strengthening the european parliament's powers under the lisbon treaty. the guarantee that the commission will apply the basic principle of equal treatment between parliament and the council is one of the relevant aspects of a new institutional balance envisaged in this agreement. i would also stress the importance of regular dialogue between the commission and parliament, through access to meetings of the conference of presidents and the presidents of the committees and the college of commissioners respectively. the introduction of a new 'question time' with commissioners in plenary sessions will also contribute to better accountability of the executive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the revision of the framework agreement between the european parliament and the commission for the next parliamentary term, as it is an important agreement, not only for its symbolic value - as it gives a clear signal of the commitment of both european institutions, the ep and the ec, to work together for the european project - but also for its content, as it identifies the obligations of the parties to better meet the challenges of the future and solve the problems of citizens.
in writing. - the european parliament has been confronted on several occasions with the commission and council's deeds of late, and has been relegated to the role of mere ratifier of what has been decided. this situation, which the house has complained about, has thrown relations between the three main european institutions out of balance and it is now necessary that the european parliament, which is increasingly a full partner of the council in the decision-making process, should be given the same attention as the european commission. i hope that the revision of the framework agreement between the european parliament and the commission will be more than a mere formality, and will make it possible to streamline procedures, strengthen cooperation and promote the exchange of information in a rapid and effective manner, so that the voice of the representatives elected by the member states can be heard and taken into account in a timely manner. from the way you've been preparing, i believe that's possible. the initiative of the president of the european commission to seek to establish a special partnership between parliament and the institution he chairs is therefore fully justified. i hope this one not only comes, but bears fruit.
in writing. − given the implications of the lisbon treaty for the functioning of the institutions of the european union and the strengthening of co-responsibility in decision-making processes, it is imperative to establish a set of procedures which provides conditions and guarantees for a healthy and effective exchange of information and views on strategies for consolidating and developing the european construction. the possibility of organising working meetings prior to legislative and regulatory production by each of the institutions will certainly promote concerted efforts, the reconciliation of ideas, projects and perspectives and the improvement of proposals for decisions. in this way we will avoid administrative and bureaucratic procedures, particularly with regard to the return and correction of resolutions, and the risk of a multiplicity of proposals and counter-proposals will be avoided. this is an agreement which strengthens cooperation between the european institutions and ensures that the commission applies the basic principle of equal treatment between parliament and the council. the framework agreement between parliament and the commission must therefore be implemented as a matter of urgency, and the need for continuous evaluation to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of this institutional relationship must be recognised.
in writing. - with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it became necessary to negotiate a new framework agreement to govern relations between the european parliament and the commission. the motion for a resolution, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority today, reflects the very important new role that is being assigned to the european parliament. the spirit of the lisbon treaty is clearly reflected in this document, with the extension of parliament's responsibilities, equal treatment between parliament and the council and new prerogatives for parliament in a number of areas. in this respect, the proposal adopted reflects a deepening of the process of establishing the eu in the right direction.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty embodies a new institutional balance, which gives the european parliament a substantially improved status vis-à-vis the other institutions. the framework agreement aims to guide the day-to-day relations between the european parliament and the european commission in an institutional partnership now strengthened and adapted to the new lisbon treaty, taking as a starting point the commitments made by the newly elected president of the commission, josé manuel barroso, and his proposal for a 'special partnership between the european parliament and the commission'. the request for a commitment from the commission to respond within a limited timeframe to all requests for legislative initiative is welcome, reflecting the growing importance of the european parliament as a co-legislator, particularly in matters such as regional policy. i also regard as extremely positive the inclusion of the guarantee that the commission will apply the basic principle of equal treatment between parliament and the council, as well as greater interinstitutional cooperation in the preparation and implementation of the annual legislative and work programme. for these reasons, and above all because the european parliament sees its role strengthened and the european union emerges renewed, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission, aware of its central role in the whole european architecture and of its growing importance as a producer of legislative initiatives. as a portuguese, i cannot help but rejoice at the fact that the demanding post of president of the commission has once again been entrusted to my compatriot josé manuel durão barroso, who had previously held it with undeniable merit. i am aware of the difficulties of the present time, but i am encouraged by the hope of better days for the european union and the european project, and i wish you and your team every success.
in writing. − in view of the principle of subsidiarity and the representativeness and equal rights of the different member states, i stress the importance of the sharing of responsibilities and the allocation of powers between the members constituting the european commission. in the context of the progressive strengthening of cooperation between member states and the european union's enhanced capacity for global intervention, it would be incomprehensible for decisions and strategic and political options to be individualised within the european institutions. all the new commissioners were questioned and heard in the european parliament, where they were able to express their expectations and their projects in their respective spheres of activity, always stressing the importance of sharing responsibilities because of the interaction of the different portfolios and competences that make up the european commission. rather than any show of incapacity or a hint of presidency, this approach reinforces the spirit of co-decision, promoted by a cooperative leadership, which promotes an effective and fruitful dialogue for the consolidation of the european union. in view of the above, i vote against.
in writing. the resolution tabled by the gue/ngl addresses important aspects of our assessment of the college of commissioners before this parliament, while summarising some of the main reasons for our vote against this commission: the presentation by the president of the commission of a programme - to which the commissioners are naturally attached and which they have defended without reservation in the hearings held in parliament - which represents the continuation of the failed neoliberal policy of the previous commission; the fact that this team has been chosen to carry out this same programme, pursuing a strategy which will not bring about the necessary changes in political orientation towards greater social justice, job creation and the eradication of poverty, but which contains in itself dangerous elements of deepening these serious problems. in short, the europe we are fighting for - a europe of justice and social progress, of economic and social cohesion, of cooperation between sovereign and equal states and a europe of peace - is far from being achieved by the guidelines which this commission proposes to follow.
in writing. - after several weeks of hearings with the new commissioners, this would not be the time to question the quality of a college of commissioners, which spent several hours in various committees giving clarification on the policies to be adopted, with obvious benefit. it is therefore time to give the eu a legitimate commission capable of responding to the difficult times we are living in.
in writing. − parliament and the commission will tackle key issues for the european union, including the reversal of the crisis through the relaunch of the economy and employment, the balancing of member states' public finances and the negotiation of the financial perspectives after 2013, of which cohesion policy is the most important. i had the opportunity to ask the commissioner-designate for regional policy, johannes hahn, whether he was prepared to set up a specific programme of permanent financial support for the outermost regions. i also presented a proposal for a more flexible system of eligibility for structural funds for regions in 'transition', i.e. between the 'convergence' and 'competitiveness and employment' objectives. in addition to his competence and rigor, the commissioner-elect has shown an openness to studying these possibilities, which gives me confidence in his future performance and sensitivity with regard to the outermost regions such as madeira. i have given my vote of confidence to this team of commissioners, which will be led by josé manuel barroso, for generally demonstrating good technical preparation, seriousness and ambition to respond to the eu's challenges without neglecting the values that are at its origin, namely solidarity and territorial cohesion.
in writing. − at the critical times europe is going through, in financial, economic and social terms, it is crucial to have a strong commission with an ambitious and bold agenda in key areas such as energy security and climate change, scientific research and innovation. the new commission structure, with a dedicated climate change portfolio and another combining innovation and research, gives clear signals of an ambitious project and a credible strategy for europe by 2020. this new commission, with president barroso as its leader and a new structure for these areas, has the necessary conditions to be the engine of an economic recovery based on resource efficiency and innovation, with a view to greater social justice. i congratulate the new college of commissioners and president barroso and welcome the result of this election. this represents a broad parliamentary support compared to the previous commission, giving a clear signal of encouragement for new institutional cooperation between parliament and the commission so that we can increasingly speak with one voice within a world-leading eu.
in writing. - i congratulate mr barroso not only on the excellent work he did during his first term, but also on his well-deserved re-election to a new term as president of the ec. i hope that parliament and the commission can work in close cooperation and with full respect for each other's powers and prerogatives, seeking to establish a special partnership between the two institutions, as proposed by president barroso in his political guidelines. i am confident that the president-elect of the commission will honour the commitments he has made to this parliament, which should be translated into a revision of the framework agreement. only in this way can we achieve a european construction which puts the defence of the rights of our citizens at the forefront. the hearings of new commissioners are always a highlight, revealing the breadth of european democracy. parliament exercised its powers and the process was dignified, acute and transparent. i believe that the barroso ii commission will be even stronger and more politically prepared than the previous one. i hope that it will be cohesive and that all its members will be able to shoulder the great responsibilities at a time when everyone is looking forward to economic recovery and job creation.
in writing. - the new barroso commission was approved by the european parliament by a large majority! i voted for it, too, of course. and i did it not only consciously, but committedly and confidently. because the new college of commissioners, because of its curricula, has much greater political capacity, it offers guarantees of facing firmly and decisively the major challenges of the european union: the serious financial crisis we are experiencing and its dramatic social and economic effects, especially unemployment; security and the fight against terrorism; the strengthening of europe's role in the world, which implies a europe with an active common foreign and security policy; the fight against climate change; the competitiveness of our economies in defending our social model. the realistic and ambitious programme presented by josé manuel barroso and endorsed by our parliament can now finally be implemented for the benefit of 500 million european citizens. we wish the president of the european commission and his team all the best!
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the treaty of lisbon retains the possibility for each state to retain its commissioner, a relevant circumstance so that all european sensitivities can be reflected in the commission's proceedings and projects. i regret some of the mishaps that have occurred during the parliamentary hearings, the reasons for the withdrawal of one of the applications, and i hope that these will become less and less frequent. i believe that the method adopted of subjecting candidates for appointment to parliamentary scrutiny is beneficial to european construction, allowing for greater transparency in the debate and in the assessment of individual conditions for the places allocated, and i call for the hearings to take place in a demanding but cordial atmosphere, and the european parliament and its members should refrain from trying to make them a spectacle of gratuitous offence and confrontation. i hope that the commission will opt for better legislation and that it will always bear in mind the need to respect the principle of subsidiarity and take a central role as a priority in the policy of combating the economic crisis.
in writing. − at a crucial stage in the economic recovery, the experience and versatility of the commission under josé manuel durão barroso, as well as the commitment, competence and recognition of the great european causes on the part of the commissioners heard in this parliament, will be decisive for sustaining a united and socially equitable europe, capable of taking a leading role in combating climate change and strengthening the competitiveness of our companies by relying on scientific research and innovation. i would stress the renewed expectations of a team that embraces europe's great cultural diversity and identities as a promoter of the best in each member state. in the context of the new institution created by the implementation of the lisbon treaty and in view of the challenges facing the development of today's societies, i believe that with this commission the european union is strengthening its capacity to intervene in the current economic, social and political environment, not only at home but also at world level.
in writing. - our vote against the european commission naturally follows our disagreements with its programme, with most of the positions it has taken during the hearings that have already taken place and with the very aims and content of the lisbon treaty which it has pledged to defend but with which we disagree. it is true that the european commission is one of the most important institutional bodies of the european union, but it is also true that the college of commissioners is made up of commissioners appointed by the member states of the european union. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it is not surprising that the european commission has been active in the process of european integration. so, in particular, we hear no answers to the serious economic and social problems facing workers and populations. we are fighting for another europe of justice and social progress, where economic and social cohesion is a reality and cooperation between sovereign and equal states and peace are central objectives.
in writing. - after several weeks of hearings with the new commissioners, this would not be the time to question the quality of a college of commissioners which, over several hours, in various committees, gave clarification on the policies to be adopted, with manifest profit. it is therefore time to give the eu a commission with legitimacy and the ability to respond to the difficult times of the present. the text of the explanation of vote on motions for resolutions b7-0071/2010, b7-0088/2010 and b7-0089/2010 is reproduced here, and the undersigned particularly welcomes the fact that the eu is now better equipped to face the problems of the present and the challenges of the future.
in writing. − parliament and the commission will tackle key issues for the european union, including the reversal of the crisis through the relaunch of the economy and employment, the balancing of member states' public finances and the negotiation of the financial perspectives after 2013, of which cohesion policy is the most important. i had the opportunity to ask the commissioner-designate for regional policy, johannes hahn, whether he was prepared to set up a specific programme of permanent financial support for the outermost regions. i also presented a proposal for a more flexible system of eligibility for structural funds for regions in 'transition', i.e. between the 'convergence' and 'competitiveness and employment' objectives. in addition to his competence and rigor, the commissioner-elect has shown an openness to studying these possibilities, which gives me confidence in his future performance and sensitivity with regard to the outermost regions such as madeira. i have given my vote of confidence to this team of commissioners, which will be led by josé manuel barroso, for generally demonstrating good technical preparation, seriousness and ambition to respond to the eu's challenges without neglecting the values that are at its genesis, namely solidarity and territorial cohesion.
madam president, commissioner, in monetary union there are no attacks on greece, spain, ireland or portugal, there are attacks on the union and there are attacks on the euro, taking advantage of signs of fragility or of the gaps that are opening up in the solidity of the bloc. and in this context, i have to tell you, commissioner, that your statements were both inopportune and dangerous, but coming from someone with your experience and background, they can only reflect a disdain for the persistence and inaction of the commission which you have made part of, because a monetary union is much more than, as you know, a single currency, a stability pact or a single central bank. monetary union, if it is to be sustainable in the long term, cannot be limited to nominal short-term indicators, cannot leave the real economy, economic growth and employment behind, and cannot ignore the brutal internal regional and social divergences that accompany it and that the commission has rightly identified in its work on emu@10. each member state has its own obligations. but anyone who considers monetary union to be a finished project is making an unforgivable mistake. we must stop using words and move on to action. the lisbon strategy did not work because it lacked the means and instruments. today, if we want monetary union to persist and be solid, we need to replace terms such as 'solidarity' and 'coordination of economic policies' with concrete means and instruments that have not been there until now. the commission has just been sworn in, not to maintain what it has done so far, but to learn the lessons and start a new phase. that's what i expect and you have my trust.
madam president, in this debate it was essential to ensure that the european union would break with its monetary policies and the blind criteria of the stability pact. it was essential to focus on social progress in order to give priority to tackling the problem of unemployment and poverty, to support production and the creation of jobs with rights, to ensure economic and social cohesion, to provide budgetary support measures for the countries in the most difficult situation, in particular by advancing funds without the need for national counterparts. but unfortunately, that's not what we heard here. commissioner almunia has insisted on the same policies, he has insisted on the same neoliberal recipes, trying to make the consequences of the bad policies of the european union, including his own responsibilities, fall on the same people as always, commissioner, especially with the sad and regrettable statements he made about greece, spain and portugal, which in my country, for example portugal, triggered a rush of speculative capital. they did win with their statements. but my country and the others lost to them and to the policies that are here. so we tell them, it's time to change policies.
madam president, in a debate on the economic situation of certain euro-zone countries, the recipe is clear: we need more economic and monetary union, we need better competitiveness, we need better solidarity. this is the view of someone who, being portuguese, is well aware of the difficulties of seeing the public debt grow, the deficit become difficult to control or public expenditure become excessively high. what these countries need is solidarity and good signals. unfortunately, the statements made recently by commissioner almunia comparing the portuguese and spanish situation with that of greece were not good signs. these were unfortunate and unwise statements that had immediate effects on the market. the lisbon and madrid stock exchanges have fallen sharply, and we cannot add difficulties to difficulties. political management is extremely important. what i want to know is whether this lesson will be retained for the future, because then we can have a better economic union, we can bet on more europe to create solidarity and to realise that the situations between the different states are totally different and not comparable. if we learn from this, the future of the euro area will surely be better.
in writing. european commissioners are expected to be a factor of stability and to make rigorous and reasoned statements, unlike recent statements by commissioner joaquín almunia, who has shown a lack of prudence and contributed to losses on the stock exchanges and distrust of international investors towards portugal and spain. to cope with the crisis, eu member states have launched recovery plans, stimulus and incentives for the economy, and have consequently increased their deficits. however, we also know of member states which, either through incompetence or deliberately, have misrepresented their deficits. recent developments have forced the european union to give new impetus to its proposals for supervision and to implement a strategy of enhanced economic coordination. the commission also proposes to set up a system for monitoring the deficit in each member state so that corrective measures can be taken quickly and that any irreversible situations can be avoided. this system should work in near real time. it is also important to clarify the formula for calculating the deficit so as to avoid situations of government accounting fraud and to avoid recurrent budgetary discouragement techniques with the aim of concealing the deficit.
in writing. the campaign launched over the situation in greece, which some are now seeking to extend to other countries, is unspeakable and revealing of the real aims of its main protagonists, which include the european commission itself and some of the eu's main economic powers. the pressures on countries such as greece, portugal and spain to combat their deficits cannot be dissociated from the interests of speculative finance capital and its objectives of fighting for ground for the euro against the dollar. these are the interests which must be defended, even at the expense of the interests of the peoples of these countries. a few questions arise: - what are the objective reasons why we must reach 2013 with deficits below 3% (regardless of the evolution of economic growth)? - what is the point of an economic and monetary union which does not practice solidarity and cohesion? - if the ecb regularly lends money to national banks at rates lower than those on international markets, why can't it do the same to governments? - why are there no instruments to enable the most deprived countries to obtain financing at rates lower and closer to those obtained by others?
on behalf of the s&d group. guantanamo is a creation of the bush administration, but it would not have been possible without the help of european allies and the silence of the european union. it is therefore up to the union to act in accordance with its values and interests, doing everything possible to close this sordid chapter in our history. the eu's image in the world, the transatlantic link, the fight against terrorism and free movement in the schengen area all contribute to making the request to take in prisoners from guantanamo deserving of a collective and coherent european response. but this response has been slow, limited to bilateral understandings between the united states and some member states. it is shocking that the major countries which were bush's accomplices in the extraordinary renditions, the secret prisons and guantanamo, such as germany, the united kingdom, italy, poland and romania, are stealing away from their responsibilities, ignoring the appeals of the obama administration. this is a matter of the common foreign and security policy, which must be conducted by the foreign ministers of the european union as a result of article 24 of the lisbon treaty, and it must be based on mutual political solidarity between the member states. it is up to the high representative, now with the power of initiative under article 30 of the treaty, to propose and lead a genuine european strategy to help close guantánamo as quickly as possible and to ensure the necessary support for the individual recovery and social reintegration of released persons, including their right to family reunification. i must commend the contribution of my country, portugal, for having been a pioneer in offering this aid to the obama administration, for urging other european partners to do so and for already taking in people who have unjustly suffered years of captivity in guantanamo.
mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, guantanamo was one of the greatest mistakes of the bush administration. it has violated international conventions such as the convention against torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment and the convention against enforced disappearances, allowed arbitrariness, disregard for human rights, the imprisonment of innocents and the practice of torture. president obama was absolutely right when he said that it was essential to close guantanamo to restore to the united states of america the moral authority that it had lost through the use of extrajudicial instruments in the fight against terrorism. there was obama's determination, on his first day in the white house, to suspend the military court proceedings and proceed to announce the closure of the guantanamo bay detention camp. his task has not been easy, especially given the lack of cooperation from the us congress. in this european parliament we have always been very divided on the transatlantic strategy, but we have achieved a broad consensus against the prison of shame. in the council, deeply divided by the war in iraq, it was possible, by unanimity among all the foreign ministers, to call for the closure of guantanamo. as mr salafranca has already said, several member states have accepted to take in former prisoners: france, portugal, ireland, belgium, the united kingdom, italy and hungary. the decision whether to take in guantanamo prisoners is a decision of individual member states, but it should be made on the basis of european coordination. in a europe without frontiers and with free movement there must be information shared between member states. mr president of the council, mr commissioner, in expressing my concern at the dragging of the situation in america, i would like to ask: what in your opinion can the european union still do to help? what can we do yet that we're not doing? and what, in your opinion, is preventing or hindering the european union from providing this aid?
mr. president, the un says that biodiversity is facing the worst crisis since the dinosaurs went extinct 65 million years ago. the destruction of coral reefs in the tropics, increasing desertification in africa and deforestation threaten biodiversity and have negative impacts on many sectors of the economy, such as food production, tourism, the pharmaceutical industry or energy production. the un also acknowledges that it has failed to meet the 2002 target of significantly reducing the current rate of biodiversity loss by 2010. cites is the main global agreement on the conservation of wildlife with the aim of preventing the over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora species by international trade. human consumption of natural resources, destruction of habitats, climate change, overexploitation of wild species and illicit trade are the main causes of the depletion of biodiversity. it is therefore important to ensure that, in the international year of biodiversity, the key strategic objectives of the european union in the framework of the next conference of the parties to cites are aligned with the objective of protecting biological diversity, which is fundamental to the well-being and survival of humanity. we must be ambitious and demand the protection of all endangered species.
last november, iccat adopted strong restrictive measures on catches of bluefin tuna: reduction of the catch in 2010 from 22 to 13 500 tonnes, restriction of fishing from 15 may to 15 june for purse seiners with a retainer. ambitious and unprecedented measures, in the words of then commissioner joe borg. these decisions have been taken in line with the latest scientific advice on the species and their impact should be assessed further in 2010. it is therefore pointless to anticipate further economic and social restrictions on the sector, especially in the period of severe crisis it is going through, such as those which amount to the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i. the fisheries sector requires a dynamic balance between its three pillars: environmental, economic and social. in the case of environmental requirements, these must be scientifically justified, as was also the case at the iccat meeting with the active participation of the european union. the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i would therefore set a serious precedent for disregarding the requirement of a scientific basis for the restriction and a balance between the environmental, economic and social pillars, thus opening the door to other hasty and factious decision-making and distorting the rules of responsible management.
this report on the erdf is intended to broaden the eligibility of housing assistance for marginalised communities in our member states. until now, this support has only been available to marginalised communities living in urban areas in the new member states. in other words, since the vast majority of these communities live in rural areas and shelters, these communities could not benefit from support to replace poor quality housing. the aim is to fill a gap and to give the member states and their regions greater policy options to mitigate the specific difficulties of these communities. i also welcome equal treatment for all member states, because marginalised communities with support and integration needs deserve our concern, regardless of the member state to which they belong. the conclusion of this important report on the fight against poverty and human dignity at first reading also means that it can be quickly implemented as part of the economic recovery plan, thus responding quickly to the crisis that affects us.
mr president, commissioner, let me begin by highlighting the role of the rapporteur, mr van nistelrooij, for his work in seeking consensus on this matter and also for the willingness he has always shown to incorporate other contributions into his report. tomorrow we shall vote on amendments to the erdf regulation which are of particular importance for the so-called old member states and also for portugal. these amendments will make it possible to extend the use of the erdf in the housing sector to marginalised communities, as at present this fund can only be allocated to urban development operations. the amendments which i proposed with other colleagues and which were adopted by a large majority in the committee on regional development will allow the old member states, and not just the new ones, as envisaged in the original proposal, to benefit from this possibility of funding. i have tried to avoid setting a dangerous precedent which would exclude all the former member states from this and probably other additional uses of community aid. this would make no sense, since housing problems, especially among marginalised communities, exist in both the new and the old member states. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that the length of time since accession to the european union should not be a criterion for allocating structural funds and that this criterion should be abandoned. the negotiation of cohesion policy post-2013 should be based on solidarity towards territorial cohesion and should be geared towards rewarding, rather than punishing, regions that have been exemplary in the use of community aid.
this report acknowledges some positive steps towards eu membership by turkey, a candidate country since 2005, but also urges it to accelerate the pace of reforms. i would remind you that in december 2006 the negotiations were partially suspended because of your refusal to apply the eu customs union agreement to cyprus. the conflict with cyprus must be resolved and the country must continue to increase its progress in the functioning of democracy and the protection of human rights, the fight against corruption, the improvement of press freedom, the need for political transparency and faster and more effective justice, the improvement of anti-discrimination laws on gender, sexual orientation and ethnic and religious minorities, and the reform of the public administration. the turkish government continues to demonstrate political will to continue reforms and has substantially increased fundamental freedoms and democratic development in the country. we must therefore continue to make progress in the negotiations with a view to securing the accession of this key country as a mediator in conflicts between israel and palestine and as a platform for understanding between iraq and iran.
i would like to say, mr president, that we would very much like to have adopted a resolution on copenhagen today that is stronger than the one we voted for here. but we voted in favour because we think it is very important that the european parliament expresses its strong disappointment with the agreement that has come out of copenhagen. this agreement is not binding, there is not even a commitment made or a specific commitment to reach a binding agreement during this year that is now passing. however, the problem is getting worse, time is passing and we have to make this specific commitment. i would therefore appeal to the european union to stop using others as an excuse. it's very comfortable to be in the position of doing nothing because others don't. we've had a strong position, so we have to move forward with that position. that is an irresponsible excuse and an indefensible position. there are many ways to maintain our strong position. one of them is the redefinition of the european union budget to guarantee own funds, own financing for the fight against climate change and not as has been done so far. another way is to allocate additional own resources to aid to developing countries and not to withdraw or cut existing humanitarian aid, because otherwise we are being cynical in trying to solve the problems of climate change while at the same time uncovering and exposing other problems of survival. you don't solve additional problems without additional resources. we therefore need a compromise and we cannot wait any longer. we have come to copenhagen with a demanding position. let's stick to it, because we're talking about real problems, real people, that we have to deal with right now. that is why, today, we take this responsibility here.
in writing. - the proposal is to set up, on an optional and experimental basis, a system of automatic clearing for the supply or provision of certain goods and services which present a risk of fraud. this is because, according to the european commission, cases of vat fraud remain significant, and the commission also has information on alleged cases of fraud relating to the exchange of greenhouse gas emission allowances. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − the adoption of directive 2006/112/ec had already been an important step in the fight against tax evasion. however, despite its merits, it was no longer effective enough to deal with so-called 'carrousel' vat fraud. this tax fraud accounts for a large percentage of the loss of tax revenue that occurs in the member states and has been one of the most widely used. at this time of economic crisis, when the fight against tax evasion is all the more important given the seriousness of the leakage of revenue, all efforts to combat tax evasion are essential and have an important impact not only on the response to the current international crisis situation, but also on the possibility of pursuing relevant social policies.
in writing. - i am pleased to vote in favour of this amendment to the erdf to extend its scope to housing interventions for marginalised communities in all member states. until now, housing assistance could only be provided as part of urban development operations in the form of housing renovation. i think that this is an unwarranted and discriminatory criterion, since, as in portugal, most of these families live in rural areas in shelters. these are the ones who need it most and cannot be excluded on geographical grounds. i welcome the amendment by the ep which thus strengthens territorial cohesion. moreover, instead of the commission's initial proposal restricting access to this proposal to the new member states only, this new regulation extends the scope to all member states, thus avoiding meaningless discrimination between european marginalised families. this is a global problem affecting thousands of families all over europe! in portugal, the situation is particularly serious in view of the economic crisis the country is going through and the poverty situation in many of these families.
in writing. − the european commission intends to amend the rules of the erdf (european regional development fund) regulation to allow new member states to use these funds for housing interventions for marginalised communities living in rural areas. this amendment applies only to the new member states, which, we must not forget, have large marginalised migrant communities living in rural areas, thus justifying the adoption of an exceptional scheme in the erdf regulation.
in writing. - in the fight against poverty and the improvement of the living conditions of the most deprived sections of the population, whose situation of weakness has been greatly aggravated by the deep crisis of recent years, the european union has an obligation to ensure and encourage continued policies for social inclusion. in addition to the health problem, the deterioration of living conditions aggravates and often causes risks of segregation and marginalisation. the living conditions are decisive for the self-esteem and social value of any citizen, and therefore, along with education, health and employment, play a decisive role in the construction, development and consolidation of a sustainable life project, whether at individual or family level. the committee calls for the european union to maintain intervention strategies that do not discriminate on grounds of gender, race or ethnicity. a more balanced social europe also requires that the creation and expansion of ghettos or areas easily associated with a certain disadvantaged or marginalised community be avoided. it also calls for inclusion policies to target those who need it most, without making any distinction between european citizens.
in writing. - the adoption of this report is very important because it introduces an amendment to the erdf to help the most marginalised, regardless of whether they live in urban centres or not.
in writing. - the report we have adopted today amends the regional development fund regulation, extending its use in the housing sector for the benefit of marginalised communities, as currently this fund can only be allocated in the context of urban development initiatives. the amendments which i and other members have proposed and which have been confirmed today in the house will allow the old member states, and not just the new ones as envisaged in the commission's original proposal, to also benefit from the erdf for this new financing option. i have therefore tried to avoid setting a precedent, which i consider dangerous, and which would exclude the former member states, particularly portugal, from this and possibly other additional uses of community aid. i reiterate that the length of time since accession to the european union should not be a criterion for the allocation of structural funds and that cohesion policy after 2013 should continue to be based on the principle of solidarity with a view to territorial cohesion, which is crucial for the outermost regions such as madeira. it should also aim at greater flexibility, simplicity and transparency and a result-orientation that rewards, rather than punishes, those regions which have shown themselves to be exemplary in the use of community aid.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion are an attack on the building of a fairer, stronger and more equitable europe in terms of social and economic development. the consequences have become even more evident and serious in this period of severe economic and financial crisis, when member states' budgets have been particularly weakened and put under greater pressure by the need for public investment and social spending. it should be noted that tax fraud in the european union amounts to more than 200 billion euros a year, or more than 2% of gdp. in the context of the open market and the free movement of goods and persons, control and supervision mechanisms have become more complex, due to the inalienable sovereign rights of each member state. to make matters worse, unscrupulous economic operators, largely encouraged by the opportunities for easy profit arising from the economic crisis, are resorting to increasingly sophisticated and ingenious tax evasion mechanisms. the proposal strengthens administrative cooperation between the member states of the european union in the field of taxation, where the process of european integration has shown a clear imbalance between the legislation produced and the mechanisms for control and supervision.
in writing. - we have doubts about the proposal to extend the scope of the directive to 'all types of taxation' and to 'apply equally to compulsory social security contributions payable to the member state or a subdivision of the member state, or to social security institutions governed by public law'. we disagree with the idea that officials of one member state have the power to act in the territory of other member states, and we therefore find the ep's proposal to limit this issue to cases where there is agreement between member states to be at least correct. we also have doubts about the requirement for automatic exchange of information on the tax life of natural persons, despite some references to data protection, especially in the european parliament's report. we will be watching as these issues are dealt with.
in writing. - since the previous legislature, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion has been a priority for the european union, with a number of legislative proposals having been adopted in this area. administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is a key element of the common strategy to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. effective action to combat tax evasion and fraud has important consequences at three levels: in national budgets, the loss of important revenue for public expenditure in the general interest, especially health, education and research. tax evasion and tax fraud infringe the principle of equal tax treatment to the detriment of citizens and companies that comply with their tax obligations and, finally, distorts competition which in turn affects the proper functioning of markets. in this context of crisis, all measures to combat tax evasion and fraud are increasingly important in order to cope with the exceptional expenditure needed to avoid the effects of the crisis and to reduce, as far as possible, the high budget deficits.
in writing. - it is not unusual for the european commission to admit that: 'the ec treaty provisions on free movement make it difficult for member states to ask for guarantees in respect of the payment of taxes due on their territory.'so, instead of adopting provisions after provisions which later prove to be 'insufficient', and in view of the 'bad results achieved to date', why not simply go to the root of the problem and change the provisions on free movement? however, we have doubts about the way in which the proposal, which refers to: 'non-payment of taxes, fees or charges of any kind is detrimental to the proper functioning of the internal market, which is why mutual assistance for the recovery of taxes, fees or charges should not only be extended to other taxes, fees or charges in addition to those currently covered, but should also apply to compulsory social security contributions. " we disagree with the idea that officials of one member state have the power to act in the territory of other member states, and we think that the ep's proposal to restrict this application to cases of agreement between member states is at least correct.
in writing. - the increase in the number of requests for assistance between member states in the recovery of claims relating to certain fees, and the lack of effectiveness of recovery, at only 5%, make it necessary to amend council directive 1976/308/eec. to address the problems of slow progress, disparity, lack of coordination and lack of transparency, this resolution is justified.
in writing. - i welcome once again the eu's commitments to help the people of haiti following the earthquake last january. in haiti, before the earthquake, more than 70% of the people lived below the poverty line and their foreign debt reached 890 million usd. at this point, it is the duty of the international community to contribute to the definition of a strategy for the reconstruction of the country that is sustainable in the short, medium and long term. this is a key moment for the coordination of reconstruction efforts between international aid donors, the haitian authorities and civil society, and i welcome the recent g7 decision to forgive haiti's debts, including those owed to multilateral credit institutions. it is crucial to help this country recover from the earthquake, but it is important that the international community take advantage of this opportunity to help solve the problem of economic, social and political imbalances in haiti.
in writing. - the earthquake on 12 january 2010 on the island of haiti, which killed thousands of people and caused a situation of devastation and deep calamity, calls for our firm solidarity with the haitian people. i had the pleasure and honour of contributing to the drafting of this european parliament resolution. i think it is essential, first of all, to thank the professionals whose work, carried out immediately (through the jrc), has helped to save lives and alleviate urgent needs on the ground (health, water, hygiene, clothing, etc.), thus proving that the investment required by the ep over the years has had its positive practical effects. on the other hand, as in the asian post-tsunami, lessons must be learned from the experience. the european commission should present as soon as possible, following the 2006 barnier report, legislative measures to create a single, independent and permanent eu civil protection force capable of carrying out rescue missions and ensuring an integrated approach to assistance, rehabilitation and development. i also congratulate the member states, ngos and civil society for all the humanitarian aid that has been made available.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution on the earthquake in haiti, which killed 200,000 people and injured 250,000. i express my sympathy and solidarity with the people of haiti and other nations, the staff of international organizations, including the un and the european commission, and the families of the victims of this tragedy. i would like to highlight the work carried out by some member states of the european union through the eu civil protection mechanism and under the coordination of the information and surveillance centre and welcome the proposal to carry out an assessment of the european response to the humanitarian crisis in haiti so that the european commission can make proposals to improve the eu's rapid response capacity in the future.
in writing. − january 12, 2010 will surely go down in haiti's history as one of its most terrible days. a people and a state already plagued by poverty and underdevelopment were suddenly devastated by a natural disaster of colossal, merciless and murderous proportions. the tens of thousands of dead in ever outdated statistics and the anguish and despair in the eyes of those who have lost everything have amply justified the mobilization of the international community and of so many civil societies around the world, to which i cannot but join. despite this solidarity drive, which only ennobles those who have been at the forefront of it, we must try to continue this aid, even when the focus of global attention shifts to another country. despite all international efforts, the reconstruction of the country will only take place if the rulers and the ruled are able to lead the process and assume their respective responsibilities.
in writing. - the calamitous situation in haiti following the violent earthquake on 12 january is a new challenge to solidarity between peoples and nations. the european union, by virtue of its history and cultural identity, and its importance in the context of the world economy, must play an exemplary and stimulating role in helping haitians and in the reconstruction of one of the poorest countries in the world. financial and logistical instruments must be put in place as a matter of urgency to minimise the suffering of the population affected by the tragedy and to ensure the speedy restoration of the minimum living conditions for the people. however, conditions must be assessed and ensured for the promotion of sustainable development in the country in order to counteract the situation of extreme poverty affecting a large part of the population of that country. in addition to the incentives for agricultural profitability, industrialisation and the development of sustainable product marketing channels, i consider it essential to support the implementation of a strong strategy for environmental recovery, since haiti is a striking and dramatic example of the devastating impacts that climate change represents for humanity. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - in the face of the dramatic scenario of complete destruction that has befallen haiti, there is an urgent need for effective and genuine solidarity to help alleviate the suffering of its people. the rejection and condemnation of any attempt to exploit the tragedy of the haitian people to occupy the country militarily and the unequivocal defence of the sovereignty and independence of haiti - something which the text under discussion does not do - are also imperative. it is regrettable that the resolution is more backward than the statements of some heads of state and un leaders on the deployment of tens of thousands of us troops in the country. haiti and its people lack firefighters, doctors, hospitals and basic necessities. the eu's response, which the resolution welcomes, was 'the council's decision to send 350 military police officers'. it is appropriate to recall here the rapid aid given to haiti by countries such as cuba, which promptly sent 400 doctors, saving lives and preventing epidemics, setting up medical infrastructure and distributing basic necessities, or venezuela, through debt forgiveness and fuel supply.
in writing. - we believe that this is a time for all the humanitarian aid, cooperation and reconstruction aid that the nobility and courage of the haitian people deserve. unfortunately, too much time was wasted on the supports and not everything worked out for the best. as we have pointed out, some, particularly the united states, were more concerned with strengthening their military presence with their troops than with the people of haiti. we regret that the resolution adopted did not go further in defending the state of haiti and its people, starting with the rejection of any attempt by any country or person to take advantage of this catastrophe to resume neocolonialism, forgetting the poverty in which the majority of the population lives, which remains the victim of the exploitation of multinationals and of external interference, particularly by the united states. we will continue to express our full solidarity with the people of haiti.
in writing. - the earthquake that struck haiti on 12 january 2010, in addition to all the deaths it caused, continues to affect some 3 million people every day for whom humanitarian aid is crucial. the eu's role in foreign policy has been becoming clearer, and the values the eu intends to promote are aimed at contributing, among other things, to world peace and security and the protection of human rights. the efforts of the member states to help haiti emerge from this catastrophe as a fully functioning democracy with an economy capable of supporting its people are therefore to be commended, bearing in mind that the haitian people must always be an integral part of the whole process of reconstruction, as well as their government.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document with a great sense of responsibility and with the hope that this resolution will bear fruit. i would like to commend the efforts of the various political groups in this parliament to come together to give a united voice to the house of european democracy and to stress the strong pragmatic tone of the resolution, which points to concrete ways, solutions and measures for the eu to deal with the iranian regime. in this connection, i stress the need for: a) strong condemnation of companies supplying equipment and technology to the iranian authorities for the purposes of censorship and surveillance, which should be followed by a ban on european companies doing so; b) the demand (i would even say the demand) of the absolute necessity of respecting the vienna convention/the rules of diplomacy; c) the introduction of more sanctions on iranian organizations/individuals operating abroad, which are responsible for the repression and restriction of freedoms in the country, as well as those linked to the violation of iran's international commitments with regard to the nuclear issue; (d) nevertheless to promote the continuation and deepening of the dialogue with iran, in particular with civil society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in iran, as i consider the continuing violations of human rights in iran, particularly with regard to freedom of association, expression and information, to be a matter of concern and as i support the democratic aspirations of the iranian people.
in writing. - two types of news have been coming out of iran in recent months, both of which are unfortunately not encouraging in nature: the progress in the process of enriching uranium for nuclear purposes and the crackdown on the moderate faction led by moussavi which has been contesting the result of the last presidential elections. if separately they are a cause for concern, collectively they are the subject of the deepest concern. what about a troubled country where the increasingly radicalized government kills, tortures and imprisons opponents who demonstrate against it in the streets and at the same time is tenaciously pursuing a program of uranium enrichment for nuclear energy? the fundamentalist regime of the ayatollahs may proclaim the benignity of its intentions and the peaceful destiny of nuclear energy, but these statements do not convince the international community, which rightly sees iran as a growing threat. the european union must not only firmly condemn the brutal repression of moderate iranian groups, but also join its allies and other international actors in strengthening and tightening sanctions against tehran and not renouncing any concerted action to deal with this threat.
in writing. - we support freedom of expression and democracy and agree with the need to express concern at developments in iran over the past few months, particularly those related to the repressive actions of the iranian security forces against the popular masses. but the proposed text does not do it in the best way. in our view, the necessary expression of concern about the development of the situation cannot ignore the serious threats to iran's sovereignty and territorial integrity, including the agenda of diplomatic and military escalation led by the us administration, among which the concentration of american military resources in the region stands out. it must not be forgotten that these elements are also threats to the rights of the iranian people and to the very forces in iran which are continuing the struggle for democracy, progress and social justice and which the adopted text does not even mention. the right to determine the future course of iran belongs exclusively to the iranian people and their political and social forces. we express our solidarity with the democratic organisations and the people of iran who are fighting for social justice and progress in their country.
in writing. - the social upheavals in iran, the systematic repression of opponents of the regime and the people, the restrictions on freedom of the press and of expression, the failure to abolish the death penalty and the persistence of a nuclear programme against the international community are reasons for tremendous concern. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the recent cancellation of the scheduled visit of the european parliament delegation is another clear sign of the non-cooperation of this country, which leads us to condemn the policy implemented by this iranian regime.
in writing. - yemen threatens to become a new afghanistan, a privileged recruitment and training ground for al-qaeda and a breeding ground for fundamentalists and terrorists to spread throughout the islamic world. its degraded, if not disintegrated, social, political and economic situation, in which civil war rages and the absence of a government effectively controlling the whole of its territory, makes it a place without law and order capable of stopping, on its own, the establishment and growth of those hotbeds of violence and radicalism. the international community must therefore pay greater attention to the situation in yemen and be more firm in its monitoring of it, and aid to yemen must be directed with particular care to the effective improvement of the living conditions of its people.
in writing. − the overall situation in yemen is a matter of grave concern worldwide and the eu must maintain its increasingly active role in the face of the recent terrorist threats, so that yemen does not become another failed state in the international community.
in writing. - this modern form of slavery has grown alarmingly in recent years, becoming the third most lucrative activity for organised crime. in 2009, the un estimated the number of victims at 270000 and europol recorded no decrease in trafficking of women for sexual exploitation, noting an increase in forced labour. it is unacceptable and cannot be facilitated by the fact that there are legislative gaps. a rapid, comprehensive and coordinated response is needed at both legislative and operational levels. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, i urge the commission to put forward a new proposal as soon as possible, making it one of its main priorities to create a coherent european policy to combat effectively trafficking in human beings in all its aspects, from issues relating to countries of origin, transit and destination, to recruiters, transporters, operators and other intermediaries, as well as customers and beneficiaries. in parallel, adequate protection for victims and witnesses should be ensured, which can protect them through immediate assistance. an effort should also be made to take advantage of the action of instruments which, unfortunately, are still underused in this field, such as europol, eurojust and frontex.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, arguing that the commission and the council must ensure that the fight against this scourge remains a high priority, even in times of economic and financial crisis. member states that have not yet done so should fully implement all eu policies on trafficking in human beings at national level and ratify other legal instruments in this area as soon as possible to ensure better protection and assistance to victims of trafficking.
in writing. - trafficking in human beings is today, for its victims, an inhuman and modern form of slavery and, for those responsible, criminal organisations operating in the areas of prostitution and sexual exploitation, illegal adoption, forced labour, illegal immigration and illegal trade in organs, a highly profitable activity. unfortunately, this perverse reality also exists in the european union. it is therefore urgent that the european commission take strong and decisive action to combat trafficking in human beings, which should be based on three essential pillars: (i) adequate protection of the victims, mostly women and children, ensuring them the most fundamental rights such as life, liberty, physical and moral integrity and sexual self-determination; (ii) preventive action in investigating and dismantling the networks that promote and profit from trafficking in human beings; and (iii) severe punishment, with penalties proportionate to the crimes committed, of trafficking in human beings and its exploitation for all its evil purposes.
in writing. as stated in the adopted resolution, 'urgent action against trafficking in human beings is needed on the basis of a holistic approach, focused on human rights and aimed at combating trafficking, preventing it and protecting the victims. combating trafficking in human beings requires a victim-centred approach, which means that all categories of potential victims, especially children and women, must be identified, targeted and protected.' but we regret that our amendments to this resolution, which focused on the causes and ways of combating trafficking in human beings, were rejected, namely the following: - combating unemployment, marginalisation and poverty as the root causes of trafficking in human beings, stressing that a change in economic and social policies is urgently needed to give priority to strengthening social and labour rights, employment with rights, quality public services and economic and social progress. - strengthening cooperation and solidarity with the countries of origin of migrants, in particular by contributing to the development of their economies, improving access to knowledge, cancelling their debts and taxing financial transactions.
in writing. - trafficking in human beings is a violation of the most basic human rights and a form of slavery based on the logic of sexual and labour exploitation. international estimates place human trafficking as the third most lucrative illegal trade. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european union's action in the field of judicial and police cooperation has been clearly strengthened. the fight against trafficking in human beings must be one of the central objectives of the european union, which, on the basis of the co-legislatory role played by the european parliament, should be of vital importance in this field. the fight against trafficking in human beings must therefore remain at the top of the eu's priorities, even in times of economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu must create a new development paradigm to deal with climate change. the next budget review should provide sufficient resources for measures to overcome this important challenge. we cannot lose sight of our commitment to combating climate change, we must as europeans commit ourselves to a co2 reduction target of more than 20% by 2020. it would be important to have the collaboration of other global partners in order to reach an ambitious and legally binding global agreement in line with the objective of warming not exceeding 2°c. i also believe that the initiatives taken within the eu to promote and encourage the green economy, energy security and dependency reduction must continue to be a priority. the eu could draw inspiration from the policy in my region, the azores, which already has about 30% of its energy from renewable sources.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the outcome of cop 15, which i co-authored, and the outcome of the negotiations between the various political groups, as it is representative of the general interest in this matter with a view to a sustainable future. i express once again my disappointment at the results achieved in copenhagen and urge the eu to regain international leadership in the fight against climate change and to contribute to a legally binding agreement with measurable, reportable and verifiable reduction targets at cop 16 in mexico this year. for european industries to be more competitive and create more jobs, it is essential to invest in a sustainable future that will involve climate protection, energy security, reducing energy independence and resource efficiency. to this end, i call on the industrialized countries to invest more in research into new technologies, with a view not only to reducing co2 emissions but also to using natural resources more efficiently and sustainably.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the outcome of the copenhagen conference, as i agree in general with the content of the measures proposed, of which i would like to highlight two. firstly, the absolute need for the eu to speak with one voice in international negotiations, as only in this way will we be able to ensure global leadership in the management of this important issue, which has intergenerational consequences and therefore calls for firm, leading, immediate and sensible action, similar to others already taken by the eu (e.g. the fight against the financial crisis). this design calls for a new 'climate diplomacy' in which the efforts of not only the eu but also china and the us are essential, as explained in paragraphs 5 and 15 of the document. secondly, the imperative for developing countries/emerging economies to adopt the climate change rules applied by eu member states. in this connection, i have advocated, together with some of my colleagues in my political group, the introduction of a carbon tax on imports from third countries, so that this idea can take its first steps as an element for future reflection, which in itself i consider to be quite relevant.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change. the outcome of cop15 was disappointing. it is therefore important to ensure that the european union makes every effort in its external diplomacy to speak with one voice to secure a binding international agreement on climate change that will limit the global temperature increase to 2°c.
in writing. - after the impasse of the copenhagen climate change conference, it is important that the european union continues along the lines it has followed so far, towards a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions without jeopardising european industries. the new climate policies, especially in the face of a widespread crisis, cannot lose sight of economic efficiency and cannot in any way jeopardise the economic sustainability of european nations. that is why a new approach to energy policy, focusing on clean energy, a more efficient use of the natural resources at our disposal and a strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies is urgently needed if european competitiveness is to be maintained and job creation enabled in a sustainable development framework.
in writing. − the eu has always been a leader in international climate change negotiations. yet despite the ambition, the last climate conference in copenhagen was a failure for all the people who were determined to reach a binding agreement. the result is far from the eu's position, and also far from the position needed for climate protection. in the face of the disappointing outcome of the copenhagen conference, parliament's resolution is intended to send a clear signal to the citizens of europe and the world that it remains committed to combating climate change. we are already preparing the way for the next conference in mexico, where the commitment of the parties must increase. we cannot repeat the mistakes made in copenhagen, we must ask ourselves what went wrong during the negotiations and how to proceed in the future to involve the united states, china and india.
in writing. the resolution under discussion does not make the critical assessment of the causes of the failure of copenhagen that is required. instead of seriously analysing the eu's own responsibilities for this failure, the majority of this parliament persists in making scapegoats such as china (a country whose per capita atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide equivalent are less than half the eu average), now joined by the 'alba countries', a position justified only by the most basic political blindness and factionalism, which distorts and subverts what actually happened in copenhagen. significantly, the virtuousness of market instruments such as emission trading is emphasized, ignoring their already demonstrated ineffectiveness and perversity. once again, the necessary discussion on the so-called flexibility mechanisms, such as the clean development mechanism, is ignored. at the same time, the need to respect the sovereignty of developing countries in the definition and implementation of so-called adaptation strategies is rejected. no just and sustainable solution to the problem of climate change, as well as other environmental problems, will be achieved within the framework of the irrational system that generated them. what is required is another economic and social model, one that is opposed to capitalism.
in writing. the european council welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the commission's commitment to the lisbon strategy. the countries with the greatest responsibility in this area have not reached a consensus on reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. this is a problem that requires a short-term solution and is of concern to the whole world. it is imperative that there is more transparency and greater engagement from civil society at cop16 in mexico. the eu must be able to show its leadership in the fight against climate change. and all countries, from the united states to the so-called emerging countries, including china, which is a major polluter, must also shoulder all the responsibilities in a struggle which leaves less and less room for new opportunities. the sustaining future of mankind is increasingly at stake in a process that, if nothing is done in due time, may reach the point of no return.
in writing. - we welcome the report's express mention that: 'strongly condemns the role played by tax havens in encouraging and exploiting tax fraud, tax evasion and capital flight; calls, therefore, on the member states to make the fight against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight a priority.' we also support the view that 'in the context of oecd-led initiatives', 'results remain insufficient to respond to the challenges posed by tax havens and offshore centres and must be followed by decisive, effective and coherent action' and that 'the commitments made by the g20 so far are not sufficient to address the challenges posed by tax evasion, tax havens and offshore centres'. but the most important thing was that they were not limited to good intentions and that they were actually fighting and eliminating tax havens and offshore centres, especially when we see, in certain cases, a dramatization of the public accounts deficit with the aim of continuing and even accentuating the same neoliberal policies so that once again the workers and the people pay the bill for the crisis.
in writing. - good tax governance is essential to guarantee such key aspects as the principles of transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition. the financial crisis has made all efforts to combat tax evasion and tax fraud, as well as the fight against tax havens, all the more urgent. at a time when millions of people around the world are suffering the effects of the crisis, it would be pointless not to fight those who are not fulfilling their obligations. this initiative is an important signal to third countries that the eu is effectively fighting everything that has to do with tax havens. the fight against tax havens worldwide is not only a matter of tax justice but also and above all social justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr tarabella's report because i consider that equality between men and women in the european union, as recognised in the treaty on european union and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, is a fundamental principle which is still not applied uniformly. despite the pay gap between men and women, occupational segregation and sexist stereotypes, the report aims to focus on the principle of equal pay for equal work, as laid down in the community treaties since 1957, and stresses that the economic, financial and social crisis that is shaking the european union and the world is having a real impact on women, their working conditions, their place in society and equality between women and men in the european union.
in writing. − in its report on equality between men and women in the eu - 2009, the european commission points out that the reconciliation of family and working life, occupational and sectoral segregation, wage differences and the low female employment rate are the main disparities between the sexes. these disparities between men and women are particularly exacerbated in the context of the current economic, financial and social crisis. i voted against the report because i think it has been distorted by introducing issues such as access to abortion and free access to abortion consultations, which are very sensitive issues and which, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, are a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. − i voted against the report on equality between men and women in the eu - 2009 because i considered that it was distorted by introducing issues such as access to voluntary termination of pregnancy (ivg) and free access to consultations on ivg, which are very sensitive issues and which, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, are a matter of exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the tarabella report on equality between men and women in the european union in 2009 because it contains concrete actions and innovative policies on gender equality. the creation of a directive to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women and the introduction of paternity leave into european legislation are some of the proposals i consider to be fundamental to the promotion of gender equality and to ensure a more balanced sharing of family responsibilities between women and men.
in writing. - the situation is not good for a parliament which demands respect but does not give it. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. nevertheless, it has been a regrettable practice to sneak and bluntly introduce divisive issues under these very topics. once again, the camera has lent itself to being a mere sounding board for the most extreme agendas. i can only strongly condemn the attempt to promote the liberalization of abortion and the consequent disregard for human life and dignity under the pretext of defending equality between men and women and, illegitimately, to try to link the two causes and to condition the competences of the member states in this matter in an unacceptable way. the obsession with broadening the concept of sexual and reproductive health to include abortion - and the enforcement of its widespread adoption - highlights the kind of insidious methods used by those who try to make up reality. but it will not be euphemisms designed to numb consciences that will make it less brutal, violence against women less cruel and this initiative less deplorable.
in writing. - "violence against women is perhaps the most shameful violation of human rights. it knows no geographical, cultural or wealth boundaries. as long as it remains, we cannot claim to have made real progress towards equality, development and peace". the words are those of former un secretary-general kofi annan and, unfortunately, they remain unalterably valid. gender discrimination persists in the developed world and in europe today because it is a structural problem with serious consequences in terms of inequality of opportunity. there are still differences between men and women in the education of affections, language, the assignment of domestic duties, access to employment and the performance of professional functions. i believe that access, advancement and performance in the private sector, in public service and even in politics must be based on the merit and quality of each individual, regardless of gender. i voted against the resolution, however, because it introduces sensitive issues such as access to abortion, which are a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. - it was important that this resolution, which enshrines significant women's rights that the conservative right wanted to call into question, was passed in the european parliament. despite some weaknesses, the report managed to highlight important points such as the need for paternity leave to be combined with maternity leave, the issue of sexual and reproductive rights and the need to intensify the fight against inequalities and discrimination at work, against violence and trafficking of women and girls, denouncing poverty and precarious and low-paid work to which many women are subject. it was important that once again it was agreed that 'women should have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, in particular through access to contraception and abortion'. on the eve of the commemorations of the centenary of international women's day and the 15th anniversary of the beijing platform, this resolution is of particular importance. let us hope that its application becomes a reality.
in writing. - inequalities between men and women at various levels, whether occupational, sectoral or stereotypically varied, have been eroding over the years. equality between men and women in the eu is increasingly a reality and, although there are still situations of discrimination, we note the very positive developments we have seen.
in writing. - the european union is currently experiencing a major economic, financial and social crisis, which has serious consequences for women's professional and private lives. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. despite developments in employment and increasing participation in positions of responsibility, greater awareness of equal treatment is still needed. this report is welcome as an opportunity to redefine guidelines for the elimination of gender gaps in the labour market. only then will the eu's goals for growth, jobs and social cohesion be met. it is regrettable, however, that provisions on women's 'sexual and reproductive rights' were included in a report which arose in the context of an economic crisis and whose main concerns were the impact of the crisis on women's working conditions and on women's place in society. for the reasons stated above, and despite this, since the proposed amendments to paragraph 38, which i endorsed and considered essential for the economy of the document, were not adopted, i voted against the report on equality between men and women in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in general in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's strategic objectives for the 15th meeting of the conference of the parties to cites, i supported the amendments to include bluefin tuna in 'cites annex ii' in line with the recent recommendations of the ad hoc scientific council of the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao) which in december 2009 supported the announcement of the inclusion of bluefin tuna in 'cites annex ii', with the results of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) plenary assembly which set a considerable reduction in the bluefin tuna fishery to 13500 tonnes, and with the european commission's position reaffirming its concern for the reduction of bluefin tuna, committing itself to more reliable scientific studies. recognising that biodiversity loss is a serious global problem, i believe that other animals should also be the subject of conservation proposals. i see this conference as crucial to the survival and sustainability of many species. in conclusion, i consider it premature to ban international trade in tuna altogether (including this in 'annex i'), which would therefore cause a crisis in the sector, without relying on concrete data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'key objectives for the conference of the parties to cites' because the protection of biodiversity must be strengthened at the next conference of the parties to cites. biodiversity is fundamental to the well-being and survival of humanity. we must be ambitious and demand the protection of all endangered species.
in writing. - the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is the main global agreement on the conservation of wild species, with the aim of preventing the over-exploitation of these species by international trade, and it is therefore very important that the european union participate constructively in the 15th conference of the parties in march next year. recognising the importance of the conservation of endangered species for the safeguarding of biodiversity and the ecological balance of the planet, i would point out that sustainable development presupposes the rational use of natural resources, without this impeding the maintenance of activities necessary for development. that is why, at a time when the amendment of the cites annexes is being discussed, i would like to recall the importance of ensuring at the same time adequate protection for wild species at risk without, however, calling into question or condemning to extinction activities which ensure the economic and social viability of various communities.
in writing. - the cites convention is an important instrument for the conservation of endangered species of flora and fauna, particularly those of commercial interest, which as such should be defended and enhanced. we believe that decisions on amendments to this convention, including its annexes - which are important because they allow us to take account of changes in the conservation status of species - should be based on sound scientific data and opinions. as regards the proposal to include bluefin tuna (thunnus thynnus) in cites annex i, we consider that, in the light of the available data, it is not justified. we recall that at the last meeting of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in november 2009, the experts considered that the species was overexploited, but did not call for a total ban on fishing. the recommendations pointed to a significant decrease in catches, which should be between 8 and 15 thousand tonnes, with a limit of 13500 tonnes. in these circumstances, we consider that we should wait for the assessment and recommendations of the experts following the development of the spring situation in 2010.
in writing. − it is essential that the eu presents itself at the 15th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) with well-defined objectives as regards the endangered species that need to be protected. the cites convention is very important for the conservation of wild species, with the aim of preventing the over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora species by international trade.
in writing. − the implementation of democracy is a long-term process and requires a strong commitment from the government and civil society. it's a path paved with thorns and full of difficulties. we portuguese know it well! if we add to this the disintegration of a state which, although federated, was quite centralised and ruled by a dictatorial regime which has collapsed, giving rise to a horrific war which will hardly be forgotten by future generations, we can understand the enormous satisfaction which it was for me to vote in favour of this resolution which brings us good news regarding the progress achieved by croatia. i know, however, that much remains to be done and i remind you that without a free and independent judiciary, there is no rule of law and no guaranteed human rights, so there is no foreign investment and no progress. this is true for croatia as well as for other potential candidate countries. i would also remind you that the pace at which croatia progresses on its path to the eu is determined by croatia itself, because the accession rules are transparent and known. i know croatia will live up to your aspirations! we expect the negotiations to be completed this year! on our part, you can count on our full support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2009 progress report on croatia, because i believe that zagreb will succeed in overcoming the challenges it faces and in concluding the negotiations with a view to croatia's accession to the european union in 2010. to this end, it is essential to pursue reforms in several areas of the acquis communautaire, as well as cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
in writing. - croatia has made significant progress in a wide range of areas that qualify it not only as a reliable partner of the european union but also as a strong candidate for membership. despite the personal tragedies and material destruction that have befallen that country in the course of the bloody conflict resulting from the implosion of the former yugoslavia, the reconstruction effort made and the way in which that country has been embarking on a consistent path of convergence with the union are remarkable. while there is still much to be done, particularly in sectoral areas, it is clear that croatia has earned its place among the member states and i hope that it can join the union sooner rather than later. i hope that croatia's eventual accession to the european union will be seen in the balkans as a sign of hope and that the other countries in the region, in particular serbia, will recognise the internal and external advantages and benefits of the european option. i also hope that the border issues with slovenia, which are still outstanding, will be resolved quickly and that this process can be conducted with the utmost seriousness, rigour and good faith.
in writing. − croatia, despite the nine-month impasse in negotiations over the border dispute with slovenia, has made significant progress towards eu accession. the commission has shown a high capacity to meet the desirable and previously stipulated criteria for political, economic and regional cooperation. although there is still a long way to go in this difficult enlargement effort, i welcome the progress made in the process of croatia's accession, including the logic of appeasement in the balkan region.
in writing. - the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a good example of the not always peaceful and not always harmonious mosaic of interests and ethnicities that characterises the balkan region. the european union, which is the preferred path for the country among all its main political actors, still has several options for its accession to the european union. many of them are of a material nature, coexisting with others of a more historical-political nature. the latter, which give the new state its name, have been known to create tensions with their neighbours, in particular greece, justifying a serious and persistent collective effort to overcome them. the stabilisation of the rule of law, the regular holding of free and fair elections and the affirmation of democracy in all its aspects, including the application of the principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation, are challenges that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia still faces if it wishes to persevere in its objective of being part of the european union. and i sincerely hope that you will.
in writing. - the progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia since the last progress report has been significant. it is important to stress that the prospect of eu accession has been one of the main drivers of the development and reform processes in the countries of the balkan region. it is now essential that the eu's accession criteria, as well as political, economic and regional cooperation aspects, are accepted and fulfilled if the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is to become a reality in the near future.
in writing. - it is perfectly understandable that turkey's political, economic and cultural elites aspire to eu membership. but the values, the traditions and the rules by which we live are public and, of course, we will not change them to include anyone. it therefore remains for any candidate country to accept them and possibly, after becoming a member, to try to change them. but only then! the turkish people have been feeling that they are being forced to violate their customs and traditions (which, let us say, are not being implemented!) so that, at the end of the process, even if it is successfully concluded between politicians, they will be denied membership in the referendums that will surely take place in the member states. turkey is a friendly nation with a rich history and culture. she's our partner in nato and deserves to be treated as such. i therefore suggest that a referendum be held in turkey, even if it is delayed, in which the people are asked whether they know and want to adhere to our principles and values or whether they prefer to start negotiations now for a new and deeper privileged partnership with the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2009 progress report on turkey, because i believe it is in the interest of the european union and turkey to follow up the accession process. i believe that the european union should fulfil its commitments to turkey, which should in turn invest more determination in the reform process under way.
in writing. - turkey is still far from meeting the copenhagen criteria it set itself and appears not only less committed to them, but less interested in meeting them. 2009 was a difficult year in this respect, in which it became clear that the country still has a huge gap with the eu member states in terms of politics, justice, human rights, freedom of association, expression and information, among many others. whatever the future shape of eu-turkey relations, i hope that they will be closer and continue along the path of dialogue and effective cooperation and that turkey will continue, for its own sake, on the path it has embarked on towards freedom and democracy of a western origin.
in writing. - in addition to its economic, political and social importance, turkey's accession to the european union is a mutual challenge of great symbolic importance, as a potential privileged bridge between western and eastern civilizations. the european union is emerging in the world as a benchmark for economic development, a multicultural space promoting respect for minorities and equal rights for all human beings, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity or religious orientation. these are inalienable values of the european construction project and represent an opportunity for the turkish people and for the peaceful enhancement of their ethnic and cultural diversity. despite this, the eu accession process remains insufficiently advanced, underlining the long way it has already come since the formal application for accession in 1987, which led to the opening of negotiations in 2005. i therefore consider it essential that, for the effectiveness of this process, priority should be given to promoting a referendum in turkey to ensure that the people have the opportunity to express themselves clearly on whether they accept full membership of the eu and all its implications in terms of socio-cultural principles and values, or whether they prefer a deeper partnership with the eu as an alternative.
in writing. - the accession of turkey to the european union raises reservations. the persistent occupation of part of cyprus, the refusal to open the ports and airports in that area, the violation of the rights of political, religious and ethnic minorities, the negative discrimination against women, the decision to exclude parties and the annulment of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of the military courts are some illustrative examples of this. added background questions: most of turkey is not geographically europe; turkey has an islamic identity that is very different from the judeo-christian identity of most eu countries; strategically, an eu with borders with iraqi kurdistan would not be desirable; the secularism of the state is only guaranteed by military imposition; and the transit of people from what would become the most populous country in the eu would ensure strong imbalances in the labour market. all this does not prevent the recognition of the efforts made by turkey in recent years to meet some of the eu's criteria of need, and it even points out the invaluable role of this country within nato. it is perhaps preferable to grant turkey a privileged and preferential partnership status with the eu, rather than create false expectations and hopes for accession, which facts and circumstances will hardly allow.
in writing. - the accession process of turkey to the european union has been a long process whose outcome is still open. turkey has committed itself to reforms, to maintaining good neighbourly relations and to gradually aligning itself with the acquis communautaire. however, these efforts must be intensified if the copenhagen criteria are to be fully met and the necessary reforms of the judicial and electoral system and legislation are to be implemented. progress towards concrete reforms remained limited in 2009 and issues such as the non-opening of ports and airports to cyprus are likely to affect the negotiation process. similarly, the decision of the turkish constitutional court to ban the pro-kurdish democratic society party and the annulment of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of military courts are a setback in the development of the process. the reforms are indeed necessary and urgent, as parliament's resolution states. however, in the context of greater efforts being required to meet the conditions of the accession process, it is appropriate to suggest holding a referendum to ask the turkish population whether they really know and want to adhere to european values or whether they prefer a new and deeper partnership with the european union.
mr president, in my country, when a policeman wants access to a bank account, he needs a court order. i cannot accept a deal where thousands or millions of bank records are transferred without judicial oversight to be viewed by an american police officer. there is a data protection gap in the interim agreement that was negotiated. data protection is not a luxury, it is a condition of our freedom. there is a lack of reciprocity, there is a lack of proportionality. this can't be. we certainly want the final agreement to be a well-negotiated agreement. how can he be negotiable? is it from a bad basis or from an acceptable basis? i think it's better not to have a bad interim deal than to have any kind of deal. if we reject the interim agreement, we have a good basis for negotiating the final agreement.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, a few days ago, i got an email from a lobbyist who sells body scanners, and that email talked about the "post-detroit era". well, that's only natural. each of those machines costs 250,000 euros. there's a fortune to be made in body scanners, but in fact, reading that, thinking about the post-detroit era, after an amateur terrorist attack that was dominated by the passengers on the plane, i wondered if that attack deserved to be called a historical era. it doesn't, unless it's the age of the brazen. everything cannot be used as an excuse to increase the levels of intrusion into people's private lives. and the citizens of europe must know that we here in parliament have a responsibility. yes, it's true that we need to do a counter-terrorism investigation. it is true that the police need more and more data, that airports need more and more data, but it is also important to base this research on correct assumptions and there are many assumptions here on the council's side and on the commission's side. i'm sorry to say they're wrong. the idea that the terrorist threat has not diminished is debatable. and we should discuss it here. the idea that terrorism grows and that we should grow is also true, but first, start by doing your job well because the detroit bombing, or the detroit bombing attempt, could have been prevented very simply. and so we're at this point in time to discuss the databases of the future, the policing practices of the future. when they find out that terrorists can ingest bomb-making materials, are we gonna start doing endoscopes at airports? is that what we're getting at? so there is a time when this parliament must sit down to discuss, point by point, with respect for the rights of citizens.
mr president, i think we can all agree that we must protect people and property and ensure the safety of transport. there are legitimate concerns about body scanners. i hope that three of them will be resolved by the studies which the commission is carrying out and which i ask it to conclude quickly and to refer to the european parliament. first, is it necessary and effective? second, is it harmful to your health? third, does it violate people's privacy and dignity? but there are other concerns. it was first mentioned that it could be optional. people could choose between submitting to the scanners or the old system of personal review. but it seems that some member states are adopting the principle of no check, no fly being a mandatory system. i congratulate commissioner cecilia malmström on the overall assessment she will be discussing with the european parliament and i would like to stress that we have a responsibility to find solutions that enhance security without compromising the dignity and rights of people.
five years after the orange revolution, ukrainians seem to look at this period as a missed opportunity. and it's not just their political elites to blame. it is true that these have been consumed too much in wars of power and influence. since many reforms were left unfulfilled, many were only on paper. it is inconceivable that in any democracy the electoral laws should be changed between the two rounds of an election. it does not dignify those who proposed them, those who voted for them or those who enacted them. and translate the unpraiseworthy and commendable intentions into its genesis. and much needs to be changed about the lack of independence of the judiciary, which is subject to too much influence not only from political power but also from economic agents. without a free and independent judiciary there is no rule of law, there are no guarantees of human rights, there is no foreign investment, there is no progress. but the blame for this disenchantment lies also heavily with this parliament and, essentially, with many member states. i would like us to put ourselves for a moment in the shoes of a citizen of a european country which, because of the vicissitudes of history, is not yet a member of the european union. what would we expect from the union? solidarity with the people. but many chancelleries, with the sole concern of not inconveniencing and displeasing moscow, have used and abused the permanent infighting in kiev to avoid stating unequivocally that ukraine is an independent and sovereign country. as such, if this is the majority will freely expressed by its people and provided that it meets the established criteria, ukraine may aspire to be a member of the european union in the future.
madam president, mr minister, thank you for your answer. but the truth is that in the european union, even after that statement you referred to in july, there have been new discoveries. it is known that the italian court itself convicted last november 23 us agents and two italian officials for the abduction of abu omar in milan and that one of the convicted cia agents admitted to the press that he had broken the law and that the decisions were taken in washington. the obama administration simply stated that it was disappointed by the italian court's decision. other cases, also in connection with cia flights, are still ongoing, particularly in poland and the united kingdom, and the lithuanian parliament has finally confirmed that there was also a clandestine prison in lithuania, and there too many cia flights covered up activities and, of course, carried people who had been illegally imprisoned. so the question i ask is this: will you continue this frontal action of denouncing human rights violations that has meant all this activity?
author. − madam president, i am going to put the question on behalf of my committee, the committee on international trade, and as the chair of this committee. the effects of the crisis on world trade indicate a possible 10% decline in 2009. this represents the biggest such contraction since the second world war brought on by the collapse in global demand. keeping international trade flowing is vital for the eu and other exports-oriented countries. despite commitments made by the g20, trade restrictive and distortive measures in response to the crisis have increased within the g20, as well as globally. the first sub-question is: what steps have been taken by the commission to tackle such measures, and, conversely, have any steps been taken by third countries against any other eu measures to boost economic growth? the second sub-question: there are indicators that some of the emerging countries that have been less affected by the crisis are becoming drivers of growth in international trade. in this case eu industry needs to retarget its export markets and possibly the future of its products. what strategy does the commission intend to pursue to enable eu industry to become more competitive? third sub-question: the global crisis and subsequent fall in world trade are having multiple effects on developing countries where the most unemployment is concentrated. what adjustment measures does the commission plan to take in its trade relations in particular for the poorest countries in the world? fourth point: while on the one hand large trade deficits are driven by excessive spending and indebtedness in some member states, including the united states of america, on the other hand large export-driven economies in certain emerging countries are experiencing trade surpluses. these trade deficits have contributed to global imbalances that are at the root of the global economic crisis. what strategy does the commission intend to pursue to mitigate such global imbalances in its trade policy? fifth and last point: the social impact of the economic crisis and the subsequent fall in world trade are set to outlast economic recovery. for example, we are seeing signs of economic recovery now, but levels of unemployment remain very high. when does the commission plan to conduct an impact assessment on the impact of the crisis on jobs in europe and in the developing countries? what strategy does it intend to pursue to incorporate the social and environmental dimension of trade into international wto rules? these are the five points that the committee on international trade would like to address to the new trade commissioner mr de gucht, whom i welcome to the floor for the first public exchange of views with parliament and the members of the inta committee, in particular. thank you in advance for the answers that i am sure you will be able to give to the questions that we are putting to you.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the question of the free movement of goods and services, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the question of the free movement of goods and services. we are talking about the destruction of productive activity and jobs, a serious deterioration in the capacity to create and distribute wealth, an increase in external dependence, chronic and growing imbalances in trade balances, in short, economic and social backwardness. we are also talking about attacks on workers' rights, social dumping, the ruin of millions of small producers and many small and mediumsized enterprises. these are consequences of the progressive liberalization of international trade which its advocates cannot ignore. i would remind you of the textile and clothing sector, which is particularly targeted by this agreement, and i would remind you of a study by the directorate-general for employment and the euro fund, which puts forward scenarios of a reduction in community employment in this sector of between 20% and 25% by 2020, although it even admits a scenario of a loss of 50% of employment in this sector. but i also recall sectors such as the electronics industry and the automobile component industry, which have already been mentioned. with these complaints come questions that remain unanswered. what measures will be taken to safeguard these sectors, which go beyond mitigating the effects of job destruction? what defence and safeguard mechanisms against aggressive exports? when and how will we have an effective fight against the relocation of companies? on the proposal of this group, the 2010 budget provides for a new budget line for actions in the field of the textile and footwear sector and the creation of a community programme for the sector. what are the key lines of this programme? commissioner, it is urgent to establish fair and equitable economic relations that serve the peoples and countries and not some economic and financial groups in the european union. the defence of the right of each country to produce in a sustainable way is a future requirement in the name of a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which the neoliberal model not only does not guarantee but makes impossible.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner responsible for trade two questions about the significance of this agreement for the union's trade policy. in fact, since the launch of the europe global strategy in 2006 to enhance the role of international trade in the union's economic strategy, this is the first, but also the only, free trade agreement negotiated but not yet ratified with a trade partner of a relevant size. how does the commission assess this own performance and the meagre results achieved in the light of the objectives of the europe global strategy? does the commission therefore consider that the very credibility of the union's trade policy is at stake in this treaty and that its ratification and approval by this parliament also depends on that credibility? secondly, this treaty is a bilateral agreement, involving only one country. the ambitious multilateral trade agreement within the world trade organisation is a step forward, as we know, with no prospect of exit. the various regional agreements which the union has set out to implement have failed almost everywhere, or are clearly without a great deal of success. does this mean, and i end with this, that this bilateral treaty is a sign of the failure of the union's bet on bilateral and regional agreements and that we are doomed to a bilateral bet from now on?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a wall of conflict between two policies which are costly for the european union, consumer protection and public order on the one hand, and freedom of movement and the provision of services on the other. in line with the case law of the court of justice on this matter, member states should retain the autonomy and legitimacy to regulate the activities of operators of games of chance and gambling on the internet. this is a sensitive area which interferes with societal values on deviant behaviour associated with gambling and also with national traditions of channelling the proceeds from this market to finance social works. the case law which has emerged from luxembourg has built up over the last few years a coherent and consistent stream of legal thought which should lead the european institutions and the commission in particular to take a more explicit position. the aim is to create a regulatory framework that is consistent with the cross-cutting concerns of all member states in preventing cross-border organised crime, which uses these types of online gambling to expand, and to provide real protection for consumers vulnerable to these types of online gambling. we expect the new commission, commissioner barnier, which is now taking office, to make this a priority on its agenda.
madam president, commissioner, we are dealing here with a matter of the utmost importance for the protection of the interests of the people and against the risks of fraud which are common in cases of games of chance, including internet games. the member states must retain their autonomy and full legitimacy to legislate in this area of gambling control, following the traditions of their countries and ensuring a more adequate level of protection of consumers and the interests of the population itself, including investments in social areas, as is the case in portugal. the rules of competition and freedom to provide services are therefore not applicable here. we are not dealing with a normal service, we are dealing with a game which has serious implications for the lives of citizens. we therefore hope that the commissioner will take this position into account in the actions he will take, recognising that the member states have every right to continue to legislate in the meantime.
in writing. − the 2007 convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is of great political and practical importance, as it allows for more effective recovery of child support and helps to resolve often very complicated situations. since the vast majority of maintenance obligations relate to minors, it can be said that the convention is above all a measure for the protection of minors, laying down precise rules as regards the recognition and enforcement of these obligations. this proposal seeks to approve this convention on behalf of the union, which will then exercise exclusive competence over the whole convention. given the importance of this convention, i cannot but support this proposal, although i believe that, while it is the union's responsibility to communicate any declarations and reservations to the convention, member states should nevertheless be able to decide internally what meaning to give to these reservations and declarations, so as to be able to adapt them to their national reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance. the adoption of this convention will make it possible to introduce a set of harmonised rules at community level applicable to relations with third countries which will become contracting parties to the convention. these measures are the most protective of children, since the vast majority of maintenance claims are made against minors.
in writing. the european commission intends to approve the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, which is binding on the member states because it was concluded by the community. the commission has external competence to approve the convention. since the practical questions raised by the international recovery of maintenance are not precisely answered, the adoption of this convention could ensure greater effectiveness in the international recovery of maintenance obligations for the benefit of children and other family members, thereby protecting the youngest beneficiaries of such obligations. for this reason, and also for the legal certainty that this gives, i consider it important that this convention be adopted.
in writing. − in a modern, just and culturally developed society, the guarantees of a correct and healthy diet for all people, but especially for those in a process of growth and learning, with special emphasis on children, are undoubtedly unquestionable. for these young people and for younger people, society has a duty to provide all the support and action necessary to ensure the best development of their faculties. food a basic and inalienable principle for mankind is a decisive factor in its physical development and its mental and cognitive capacities. because citizens must be the first target of the european union's action, i emphasize the capacity of the european institutions to take initiative and to put things into practice in the context of this convention, which goes beyond borders to ensure the effectiveness of the recovery of maintenance obligations for the benefit of children and other family members. it should also be noted that the possibility has been created of developing efforts towards a common judicial area based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
in writing. - we have no doubt about the importance of concluding this convention, which is what the mästalka report proposes, and that is why we voted in favour. the convention covers matters of recognition of foreign judgments, transfers of funds and administrative cooperation, including a number of practical issues which may affect the way in which international maintenance obligations for the benefit of children and other family members are handled. however, we do not agree that the european union should be the sole provider of external competence in this area. and we are even less willing to accept that this constitutes a precedent which justifies an extension of the restriction on the ability of member states to conclude bilateral agreements in particular, not only in this area but also in others.
in writing. − the harmonization and improvement of the effectiveness of the international maintenance collection for children and other family members is very important as it safeguards the rights and protection of minors, since they are the vast majority of the beneficiaries of the maintenance allowances to which they are entitled on separation from their parents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision on the community progress programme. this report amended the commission proposal which advocated the full financing of the new microfinance instrument for employment - a €100 million instrument set up as part of the anti-crisis measures and designed to support the unemployed by stimulating their entrepreneurship - from the existing budget of the progress programme. this programme was set up to support the achievement of the european union's employment, social affairs and equal opportunities objectives as set out in the social agenda, and to contribute to the implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, and has an extremely positive average implementation rate (80%). at a time when the financial and economic crisis is evolving into a social and employment crisis, adopting the commission's proposal would send the wrong signal, as progress is targeted at the most vulnerable groups. the parliament's proposal, thanks to a compromise with the council, provides for 60 million from the progress programme and 40 million from unused monthly budgetary margins. in the coming year, both programmes should be fully implemented with adequate funding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the kinga göncz report rejecting the commission's proposal to reallocate eur 100 million to the progress programme for the european microfinance facility. in a context where the economic and financial crisis is already leading the eu to a social and employment crisis, the reduction in the amounts of the progress programme, which targets the most vulnerable groups, would be a very negative signal for the european citizen. in this context, further consultations should be held to find a more appropriate solution to ensure that the european microfinance facility achieves its objectives.
in writing. − as europe is going through a serious economic and financial crisis, which has led to a serious social crisis, with unemployment rising in all member states, it is important that the eu establishes effective mechanisms to combat the crisis and also to support those most affected, such as people in unemployment. for this reason, the european microfinance facility was created specifically to address the challenges in the area of employment. this instrument would be financed with eur 100 million, entered under a separate heading in the 2010 budget. the commission's proposal to reallocate funds from the progress programme, which is intended for vulnerable groups and for the implementation of the 'social agenda' in the fight against discrimination, social exclusion, unemployment and gender inequality, seems to be a wrong signal in the present context.
in writing. − the progress programme was set up to support the european union's employment, social affairs and equal opportunities objectives as set out in the social agenda, and to contribute to the implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. i agree with the instrument for microfinance for employment and social inclusion, which has already been approved by the european parliament. however, we cannot agree to a reduction in the financial envelope for the progress programme. in principle, new programmes should not be financed at the expense of priority programmes already in progress. it should be noted that from a budgetary point of view, the qualitative and quantitative assessment of the progress programme in its third year of implementation is very positive. the average rate of implementation over the last two and a half years is over 80% in commitments and payments. and the present moment demands the committee on budgets, in the context of the 2010 budgetary procedure, clearly expressed its support for the financing of the new financial instrument by creating two new budget lines: i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, which means that the committee's proposal to transfer eur 100 million from progress to microfinance is rejected.
in writing. - we voted against this report because, as in the previous gönz report on the establishment of a european microfinance instrument for employment and social inclusion, voted last december, the majority of this european parliament is 'doing the right thing' and approving a proposal to withdraw money from the community's progress programme. we would point out that the two reports adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs, in line with an earlier ep resolution, rejected the financing of this new instrument at the expense of another already in operation. the commission has also proposed the creation of a new budget line with own resources, i.e. with 'new' money. the amendments tabled by our group were also in this direction, although they were unfortunately rejected. in view of the worsening social conditions in the various member states, it is unacceptable that funding from the employment and social inclusion area is being reduced to channel it to other priorities that have been defined in the meantime, even in the area of microfinance.
in writing. - the progress programme is of great importance in implementing the social agenda, with support in the areas of combating discrimination, social integration, employment and gender equality. this programme has been an important instrument and has had an implementation rate of about 80% in commitments and payments. it is therefore not sensible to allocate funds to this programme to combat the new unemployment situations caused by the economic crisis that the eu and the world are currently going through. the establishment of a microfinance instrument for employment and social inclusion is a positive step, but with its own objectives and without cannibalizing funds for the progress programme.
in writing. - we voted against the interim agreement because its terms are not in line with european law. it is not acceptable that the police in portugal can only access the banking data of a person with a court warrant and that millions of data can be sent to be known and analysed by the american police without judicial control. we agree with the need for transatlantic cooperation in the fight against international crime and, in particular, terrorism. we stress that such cooperation must be based on mutual loyalty and respect for the principles of reciprocity, proportionality and respect for the rights of citizens. we condemn the way in which the council has behaved towards the european parliament, withholding information and putting it in front of an established fact. it is essential that this should not happen again in the future and that the treaty of lisbon be strictly observed. approving a badly negotiated deal doesn't just mean having a bad deal for nine months. it means having a poor starting point for negotiating the long-term agreement and allowing the transfer of millions of data with retention periods of several years. we encourage the council and the commission to negotiate a better agreement while respecting the european parliament's resolutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hennis-plasschaert report because, despite the importance of an agreement with the united states on the prevention of the financing of terrorism, i consider that it is in line with the new legal framework established by the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this is a serious matter which requires a thorough debate in the european parliament, which should have access to all the necessary documentation in order to conclude a long-term agreement quickly which represents a plus in terms of security, while not compromising respect for the rights of citizens.
in writing. the 'swift' agreement allows the us treasury department to access financial payment data in order to prevent and combat terrorism and its financing. however, due to technical issues in the swift system, it cannot limit searches to specific data of specific individuals suspected of committing criminal offences. so you have to transfer, in raw form, the information about all transactions in a given country on a given date. this situation does not affect the protection of data of european citizens and businesses, as it respects the principles of proportionality and necessity. the fight against terrorism necessarily involves international judicial cooperation and, in many cases, the transfer of personal data, such as bank details.
in writing. - in accordance with the interim agreement, i support the need for transatlantic cooperation in the fight against international crime and terrorism. i would stress that this cooperation must be based on mutual loyalty and respect for the principles of reciprocity, proportionality and respect for the rights of citizens. but security cannot be superimposed on other rights, freedoms and guarantees, but must be compatible with them. it is not acceptable that the police in portugal can only access the banking data of one person with a court warrant while millions of data can be sent to be known and analysed by the american police without judicial control. i condemn the way the council has behaved towards the european parliament, withholding information and putting it in front of an established fact. it is essential that this should not happen again in the future and that the treaty of lisbon be strictly observed. in view of the above, i am voting in favour of the resolution against the agreement.
in writing. - we welcome the fact that the majority of the ep, to which we contributed, rejected the so-called eu-us 'swift agreement'. the existence of these databases and the exchange or access to them, whether by us authorities or by eu agencies or member state authorities, is proving to be highly uncertain, entailing uncontrollable dangers arising from effective 'control' of citizens by the 'powers that be'. criminals and innocents, suspects and unsuspecting, all enter a process that does not, as has been demonstrated, ensure its effectiveness. the implementation of this agreement would mean the continuation of the wrong measures being taken in the so-called 'fight against terrorism' and its not very innocent mediation for the suppression of rights. we support the need to combat all forms of crime, but this must be done primarily by preventing and preventing such phenomena, and not by increasing the security gap that undermines public freedoms and the fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens, further impoverishing the democracy we have. we will not trade freedom for more security, because in the end we will lose both. we are rather in favour of a more secure society with broad democratic rights and freedoms.
in writing. the vote was on the re-issuing of an agreement which, by detecting banking movements, has been of great importance in combating terrorism, which in recent years has targeted western societies. if the resolution is adopted and the agreement is rejected, terrorist organisations will be able to operate without effective control, with the gravity that this entails. interestingly, many of those on the far left who reject the agreement, claiming it violates the confidentiality of personal data, are the same people who, in their home countries, advocate the end of banking secrecy and the freezing of all banking data. for them, the issue is not the transfer of data but the fact that the transfer is made to the usa, a country with which they cannot conceal their obvious hostility. consequently, the vote against the resolution and in favour of the agreement i have expressed has only considered the very particular circumstances of the need to combat terrorism by all means and the recognition of the fundamental role of the united states in that fight.
in writing. − the fight against international crime, in particular through transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism, is one of the european union's major priorities. but this cooperation must be based on reciprocity and mutual loyalty. the interim agreement between the european union and the united states on the processing and transfer of payment message data does not guarantee european citizens or businesses under us law the same rights and guarantees as they would enjoy in the territory of the european union. the information transfer system does not respect the fundamental principles of european data protection law, in particular the principles of proportionality and necessity. the agreement does not expressly provide for requests to be subject to judicial authorisation or to be limited in time, nor does it define the conditions for sharing data with third countries. i also regret that during the negotiations the council shared virtually no information with the european parliament and that the agreement was voted on after it had entered into force. for these reasons, and because the rights and guarantees of european citizens deserve to be respected, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution condemning the conclusion of the swift agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we need to strengthen legislation on the protection of health workers. unfortunately, in the european union, there are over one million needle injuries every year, which can lead to the transmission of viruses such as hepatitis b, hepatitis c or hiv/aids. the adoption and implementation in the member states of the framework agreement on the prevention of injuries from sharp objects in the hospital and health sectors is therefore urgent.
in writing. − a framework agreement on the prevention of injuries caused by sharp objects and piercing in the hospital and health sector has been concluded between hospeem (european hospital and health employers' association) and epsu (federation of european public service unions). the aim of this agreement is to create standards and rules to protect healthcare workers from injuries caused by syringes and other sharp objects, which can cause the transmission of more than 20 deadly viruses and therefore constitute a serious and serious public health problem. the commission is aware of the importance of this framework agreement for the protection of the health of hospital workers and should monitor its implementation and adopt the directive implementing it shortly.
in writing. − injuries caused by syringes and other cutting medical instruments represent one of the most common and serious risks for healthcare professionals across europe, whereas hospital staff and healthcare professionals are often at risk of infections caused by injuries resulting from the use of syringes and other cutting medical instruments, as referred to in the adopted resolution. it is therefore necessary to ensure the highest possible level of safety in the work environment of hospitals and wherever healthcare is provided. we therefore adopted the resolution on the framework agreement, which contains a clause on 'minimum standards', without prejudice to existing and future community and national provisions which are more favourable to workers. member states and/or the social partners should be given the possibility and encouragement to adopt additional measures which are more favourable to workers in the sector concerned.
in writing. − the health of workers at the workplace is not only an occupational matter but also a matter of social responsibility, which means that all the bodies responsible for this area, including the european parliament, must be involved. the framework agreement concluded today between the european social partners in the hospital and health system is an important contribution to the protection of the health and safety of workers in the hospital sectors.
burma continues to experience a dramatic human rights situation, with the burmese authorities prioritising the maintenance of their own power over the survival of their citizens. i would like to express my solidarity with the suffering of the burmese people, who are oppressed by a military junta which constantly violates human rights through forced labour, human trafficking, child labour and sexual violence. it is essential that political prisoners, including opposition leader and national league for democracy leader aung san suu kyi, who was awarded the european parliament's sakharov prize in 1990 and the nobel peace prize in 1991, be released immediately, thus contributing to the promotion of free, fair and transparent elections in 2010. in this context, i urge the european union to adopt a coherent strategy and develop relations with neighbouring countries, in particular china and india, with a view to promoting transparent elections in burma.
in writing. in this debate, the eu's leaders remain far removed from the real problems of the population. the examples we are finding in visits and contacts with workers, farmers, fishermen, micro and small entrepreneurs show that the guidelines and policies of the european union are contributing to making work more precarious, to worsening unemployment and exploitation. at a time when unemployment already affects more than 23 million people and poverty more than 85 million people, it is unacceptable to insist on policies which are the cause of this situation. we therefore insist on the need to end the stability pact and replace it with a development and employment pact that gives priority to the creation of jobs with rights and to the increase of production. we must break with the lisbon strategy and opt for a social progress strategy which gives priority to the fight against poverty, which focuses on quality public services and social facilities, which promotes equality and women's rights, which implies a budgetary policy which speeds up the allocation of community support, which anticipates and facilitates its transfer to the member states... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i really enjoyed listening to them. you have brought us positive messages and affirmed your willingness to act. and we really need a lot of action because 15 years after beijing we find that, unfortunately, the results are still very small. it is not only the face of poverty that remains female, it is also the face of illiteracy, unemployment and low wages. discrimination in access to education and health care persists. women are the main victims of trafficking and physical, sexual and psychological violence. women are underrepresented in politics and on company boards, i.e. they are excluded from political and economic decision-making. we also know that for equality policies to be adequate and effective, diagnosis needs to be reliable, based on comparable statistical data and disaggregated by sex. that's what we need to be able to make the correct diagnosis and then take the appropriate action.
as we approach the celebrations of international women's day, the centenary and also the 15th anniversary of the adoption of the beijing platform for action, we see that serious problems remain in the lives of women, victims of precarious work, unemployment, growing inequalities, the crisis of capitalism, violence in society, at work and in the family. poverty has a female face, including here in the european union where the majority of the 85 million people living in poverty are women. so we not only support the resolution that was adopted in the committee on women's rights, but we hope that the majority of this parliament will also support it, including the paragraph that stresses that sexual and reproductive health and rights are an integral part of the women's rights agenda and that it is essential to increase efforts to improve women's reproductive rights and health at european and global level. it is time to put an end to inequalities and stereotypes and to give priority to the promotion of equal rights between women and men in social progress.
regional disparities remain a challenge in the context of the european union. it is therefore essential that cohesion policy continues to support the less developed regions. in this respect, i welcome the initiative for an eu strategy for the baltic sea and the ongoing initiative for the danube region. i therefore urge parliament to develop a process of reflection on the possibility of new strategies for other regions. in the south-west region of europe, for example, macaronesia (the azores, madeira, the canary islands and cape verde) faces a number of common challenges, and a strategy for this region would improve communication systems, preserve the environment, foster growth, scientific exchange, job creation, security and facilitate the fight against illegal immigration. it would also be a development of europe on its atlantic side and would establish another bridge between europe and africa.
i would point out that in island regions air transport is sometimes the only way of access and that the operating conditions are conditioned by the size of their passenger and cargo flows. while there are island regions where the abundance of these flows is attractive to many air operators - attracting competition and low transport prices, thus improving accessibility - there are others, such as the azores, where these flows are still small and not attractive to the interest of operators. as a result, air fares are higher, constituting an obstacle to the mobility of the population and a constraint on the attraction of tourists who allow this enormous potential for development and diversification of their economic base to flourish and consolidate. this is particularly damaging in times of crisis such as the one we are going through. it is therefore essential to provide temporary support to encourage increased flows so that the market can start to function, and to make these regions, which have a high tourist potential, share the objectives of the transeuropean networks in bringing the peripheries of europe closer together.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is concerned and saddened by the terrible events in madeira, especially the high number of victims. i would like to express my personal sympathy to all the people of madeira affected by the disaster. the commission extends its condolences to the families of the victims. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the situation is therefore still serious. it is, however, under the control of regional and national forces. support from the european disaster risk reduction mechanism is not required at present. however, the damage is so severe that madeira is hoping to receive financial support from the eu solidarity fund. the commission is currently examining all possibilities for eu financial assistance to madeira. already after the terrible fire disaster in 2003, solidarity aid of over eur 48 million was approved for portugal. the solidarity fund was set up in 2002 to provide financial assistance at eu level to member states affected by major natural disasters. however, the mobilisation of the solidarity fund is subject to certain criteria. the main condition is that the portuguese national government submits a request for assistance. i would remind you that the regulation on the solidarity fund normally allows the mobilisation of the fund only for disasters of a major scale where the sum of the damage exceeds the threshold of 0.6% of the gross national income of the state concerned. for portugal, this currently means that the damage must amount to more than eur 958 million. however, in exceptional circumstances and if specific criteria are met, aid may also be granted for smaller disasters, so-called regional disasters, particularly when they affect outermost regions such as madeira. since the commission has only limited knowledge of the extent of the damage, it is too early to say whether these conditions are met. the portuguese authorities should now undertake a rapid and thorough assessment of the damage and submit a request to the commission within 10 weeks. this friday my colleague mr hahn will meet mr pereira, the portuguese minister of the interior, to discuss the way forward. mr hahn will visit madeira on 6 and 7 march to get a firsthand impression of the situation. the services of dg regional policy are ready to provide all possible assistance to the portuguese authorities in preparing the application. i want to remind you that our solidarity fund grants are not paid out immediately. the fund is an instrument to help member states in the financial management of disasters, but it is not an emergency instrument. the solidarity fund is financed by an additional contribution from the member states over and above the normal budget. that is why they must be approved by the european parliament, that is to say by you, and by the council by means of an amendment. the procedure takes several months from the time the application is submitted to the time the payment is received. however, we in the commission will make every effort to keep the procedure as short as possible. the structural funds are not available for direct emergency aid. you may be able to contribute to help with longer-term reconstruction. the commission will discuss options and possible useful and necessary programme changes with the portuguese administrative authorities at short notice. i can assure you that the commission will do everything in its power to help the people and authorities of madeira to cope with this terrible natural disaster!
on behalf of the ppe group. other i rise today in this house with a voice that is drowned in the consternation of those who lived through and witnessed the tragedy that struck madeira last saturday. i am of course speaking to express my sympathy with the pain and grief felt by the families of the victims, who now number 42, and to whom i pay my respects and my respect for their loss. the true scale of this disaster is yet to be revealed, as the search and rescue teams, who have been working non-stop since saturday, in a herculean effort which i welcome, are only now beginning to reach the most isolated populations. it is feared that the number of victims may increase. the scenario is one of large-scale destruction, with high property damage to access roads, roads and bridges completely destroyed, and essential services such as water and electricity supply. there are about 600 people displaced, who have lost their homes and personal belongings. the economic and social impact of this catastrophe prevents people from resuming a normal course of life. but now we must look ahead. we must also give people a message of solidarity, hope and trust. we must help, and this is where the european union and parliament in particular have a say: are essential in the process of mobilising the solidarity fund. when we are called upon to intervene, we must do so quickly because we cannot ask people to wait, especially when they need us most. i appeal to the commission and its president, mr barroso, and in particular to the commissioner for regional development, mr hahn, and i welcome your initiative to visit madeira as soon as possible, and i ask you to take this message of hope, help and support for reconstruction with you, because now is the time to rebuild what nature has unfortunately once again taken from us. but i am sure we will because, as the madeiran anthem taught me, "the people of madeira are humble, stoic and brave. he that tilled the earth out of the rock, he that worked in the rock of the mountains, through wood, it will honor its history and in the path of work it will fight and achieve its well-being and glory".
on behalf of the s&d group. on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to convey our condolences to the families of the victims and express our solidarity with the people affected by the tragedy which struck the autonomous region of madeira in portugal on 20 december. torrential rains, strong winds, and rough seas have left the tourist center of funchal unrecognizable and left a trail of devastation and death. damage to public and private infrastructure, as well as to natural and cultural heritage, is also high. in a first estimate, commissioner, it is expected to exceed one billion euros, so it will be within the criteria for the solidarity fund. but unfortunately, there are also dozens of dead to mourn, a considerable number of injured and missing, and hundreds of displaced. the images of devastation and suffering spread around the world and left no one indifferent. solidarity rallies have come from all corners of the globe. the european union and the european commission should also show their active solidarity with this island and outermost region by urgently mobilising the solidarity fund in order to alleviate the high economic and social impacts and help restore normalcy in the affected area. i shall conclude, commissioner, by saying the following: the commission has already approved amendments to the solidarity fund, why are they not in force, why are they not being implemented?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we have started this plenary session today with a minute's silence. it was a minute of silence with two meanings: solidarity for the victims of this catastrophe that has struck madeira and their families and a sense of homage to all the workers who have been tirelessly assisting these victims. but a moment of silence should make us reflect and should also lead to a reflection that goes beyond what we are doing here. what we saw in madeira is a phenomenon that will tend to repeat itself more and more. climate change is causing extreme events to happen again and again, and we need to have responses to them. we cannot prevent natural disasters, but neither should we be condemned to having such dramatic effects on people's lives. that is why we must fight for planning and planning policies that are oriented towards the public good. but i would like to conclude, mr president, with the most important point which brought us here: the european commission, the european parliament and the european institutions must have the capacity to respond urgently to an emergency situation, and for that we need the necessary financial resources and the necessary speed.
this tragedy in madeira has claimed many lives, destroyed heritage and torn the face of a portuguese island, proud of its beauty, which so many visitors from all over the world have already had the opportunity to see. i think that no one, not even in portugal, let alone in portugal, would have been prepared for the violence of the images that, entering our homes, in the news, showed cars and people being swept away by the waters, houses collapsing, bridges collapsing, a whole landscape being altered by the force of nature. a tragedy which, as can be seen from the statements we have made here, is not just a tragedy in one region of portugal. it is a tragedy that has been violently inflicted on a part of the european union which, in solidarity, should help without reservation. it must unreservedly help the families of the victims who perished, the people who were left with nothing overnight and the recovery of a built heritage, giving back to the island of madeira what nature has stolen from it. this, mr president, is a certainty: i am reminded of the words of the madeira anthem, but i also bring with me another lesson from the anthem of portugal, a hymn that says "heroes of the sea, noble people, brave nation". a brave people who, as they have shown in other times in their history, have always known how to turn around in the face of adversity and how to overcome it. it will happen again, and this time with the help, no doubt, of the whole european union.
the disaster on the island of madeira requires emergency measures and exceptional financial support for the autonomous region. this support should be directed towards the reconstruction of destroyed or damaged public infrastructure and equipment and should also be made available to the populations affected by the tragedy in its various aspects: economic, social and family. tragedies are wicked: almost always, those who have less lose more. it is therefore important to identify and compensate, as far as possible and to the extent possible, all those who have lost their families, their homes and their livelihoods. what happened in madeira shows us in a dramatic way the importance of strengthening cooperation and solidarity in the european union, also in the field of disaster prevention. it is therefore necessary to create an appropriate financial framework for prevention, which reinforces and articulates instruments such as cohesion policy, rural development policy and regional policy, among others, to support member states in implementing measures to protect people, the environment and the economy.
the families affected by the tragedy in madeira deserve our deepest sympathy and our full support, paying tribute to the dozens of dead, the injured and the hundreds of displaced persons. the message of solidarity and hope to the people of the autonomous region of madeira after this serious catastrophe calls for swift and simplified procedures and exceptional procedures to support the victims of the destruction of their lives and their property. the solidarity fund must be mobilised, but all other funds must also be used for emergency measures to reach the families affected by this disaster as a matter of urgency and so that the autonomous region of madeira can quickly rebuild the whole affected area. the speed of the procedures must be taken into account at this stage.
i would also like to leave here a tribute of solidarity to the families and friends of the victims of the tragic events on saturday in madeira. as an azorean, as a portuguese and as a european, i cannot fail to appeal to parliament and the union to show active solidarity with the autonomous region of madeira and its people. it is in the regions that the union's presence needs to be felt and it is precisely at these moments, when its solidarity is most needed, that it is also most important that it is felt.
i too want to express my sympathy with the suffering of the people of madeira and urge the european institutions, and in particular the commission, to unlock all the means available, all the means at their disposal, to provide this aid. i would also like to stress that when there is a disaster of this kind, it is much more difficult to deal with its consequences if it occurs in poor countries and in poor regions. but in the case of madeira, we must also take into account that the economic base of madeira is directly affected by the fact that, depending on tourism, it suffers a double consequence: its natural beauties, its accesses, its quality of life are all destroyed. so it is indeed a different situation when we have problems of this gravity in poor countries and in poor regions and, in particular, in mountainous and tourist regions, as is the case in madeira. it is therefore absolutely essential that all the adjustments which have been envisaged and requested and which have been mentioned here, in relation to the solidarity fund, do not wait any longer. they must be put into effect immediately because, unfortunately, due to climate change, these processes will be repeated, especially in the poorest regions of europe, which are those that live in torrential regimes in terms of water and extreme drought during the summer.
in writing. i would like to express my deep regret and my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the natural disaster that struck madeira. i express my solidarity with all the people of madeira, the institutions and the regional government. i call for solidarity between the institutions of the european union in order to ensure that the solidarity fund is used swiftly and flexibly, in particular by fixing the maximum amount possible, taking into account the specific nature of madeira as an island and outermost region. i call on the european commission to ensure that the implementation of the structural funds - erdf, esf and cohesion fund - is carried out on the basis of speedy and simplified procedures. i also appeal to the european commission to negotiate the reprogramming of the structural funds funds with the competent authorities, through the community framework, in the light of this catastrophe.
expresses its deep regret and solidarity with the people of madeira, its institutions and the regional government in the face of the tragedy of force majeure that occurred on 20 february in the autonomous region of madeira and which resulted in several dozen deaths, disappearances, displaced persons, injured and substantial material damage. this situation requires swift and effective solidarity measures by the eu. it therefore calls on all those involved in allocating the solidarity fund to act as quickly as possible so that it can be mobilised quickly. it is also urgent that the various european union funds can be mobilised in a flexible manner, with advance payments, simplified procedures and a higher co-financing rate to meet the needs of the autonomous region of madeira. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. this fund should function as an emergency fund where the time limits for its provisioning are very short and the amounts made available are increased.
on behalf of the ppe group. other this amending budget follows the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. parliament is taking on new powers, new responsibilities and must therefore have the means to meet this new challenge. i would stress that the european citizens demand excellent legislation from the european parliament and that this is why members, committees and political groups must be given the necessary means. the legal, budgetary and financial discipline rules are respected in this amending budget. we believe, moreover, that budgetary restraint and the search for savings must be present more than ever, and that the european citizens expect this too, in the implementation of this budget. we therefore reaffirm the importance of drawing up a zero-based budget, which ensures greater rigor and transparency, and we also call for urgent information on the real fixed expenditure of the european parliament. we also stress the need for long-term planning of housing policy to ensure fiscal sustainability. we also reduced the building reserve by 4 million euros. the total budget thus represents 19.99% of the initial heading, heading no 5, which was adopted at first reading. we are confident that these means will help us to meet the legitimate aspirations, expectations and demands of the european citizens.
the rapporteur. - i would also like to address a group of 50 fishermen who are probably entering the chamber now and who have come to watch this debate and the vote on the report. i think i can speak here on behalf of all the members of the committee on fisheries who have worked hard on this report to say that it is with great satisfaction that we have seen this day arrive, this day when the report is presented to the house and put to the vote. why would you do that? because the common fisheries policy is one of the emblematic features of the european union, which had a rather difficult beginning, having formally started in the 1980s, having undergone its first reform in 2002 and, knowing today some of the main problems that were diagnosed then (i am referring to overcapacity, overfishing, overinvestment which is not the same throughout the european union, it occurs), because these problems still remain in large part. this is the starting point for reform, for a reform which must be broad, profound and which the sector has been waiting for for a long time. what direction should this reform take, according to what we have presented in the report? first, at the level of principles, in a requirement for a balance between its environmental, social and economic aspects: environmental, to ensure the conservation of stocks; social, to ensure the appreciation and dignity of the profession; and economic to ensure the income of the activity. without these three aspects we will not have fisheries in the european union, at least not sustainable and capable of development, which is what we all want. how can these general principles, which aim to fish less, earn more and preserve stocks better, be put into practice? the report points out some fundamental aspects: investing in decentralization; strengthening the power of intervention of fishermen and the whole fishing industry in power, in decision-making; greater investment in management, which will also allow a policy of compliance and responsibility; the need to distinguish between a small-scale and industrial fleet, with specific regimes for each of them; the need to reflect on management models that are better adapted to different fishing areas and different types of fisheries; it is important to strengthen the market by targeting fishing for value-added products and by increasing the price of the first sale; to link subsidies to the requirements of good practice; to make the modernisation of the fleet conditional on safety and hygiene; to decisively develop aquaculture, an ecologically sustainable aquaculture in the european union; to develop other sectors related to catching such as processing. and let us not forget the call for attention to the growing role of women in fisheries, the need to require that fishery products from third countries, which are imported into our european union, be subject to the same requirements as our producers: certification, labelling, traceability and, finally, the integration of fisheries into the european maritime policy as a broad context for enhancing their capacities. let me conclude by saying that the work we are presenting here today is the result of the joint efforts of all my colleagues in the committee on fisheries, and in particular of the shadow rapporteurs with whom we have worked very closely, as well as with the commission, the secretariat of the european parliament, the epp adviser and other advisers from other political families and also, of course, my own office and my assistant for fisheries. it is indeed a joint work that we are presenting here and that we hope will be adopted here as well.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in its green paper, the commission is making progress in its attempt to establish, in stages or not, a community system of transferable fishing rights, that is, private property rights for access to exploitation of a public good: fishery resources. this proposal was rejected at the time of the last reform, but ten years later the commission is back in charge, and it is the commission itself that anticipates the inevitable consequences of this privatisation of resources: the concentration of activity by entities with greater economic and financial power and the destruction of a significant part of small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing. it is telling that countries that have chosen this path, as iceland is, are now looking to retreat, faced with the nefarious and perverse consequences of this system. this parliament should take a clear position in rejecting this proposal. it should be said that this solution does not guarantee the sustainability of fish stocks, since the reduction and concentration of rights in a handful of operators does not necessarily mean a reduction in fishing effort, but only the concentration of exploitation of resources. the defence of resource sustainability requires other measures such as the guarantee of a fair return in the sector. this in turn requires market intervention and improved marketing in the sector, improving the first sale price, increasing the remuneration of fishermen's work, reducing intermediation margins and promoting a fair distribution of added value along the value chain of this sector. the reality of fisheries in the european union is complex and diverse. in these circumstances, the consensus on the importance of local management is in sharp contradiction with the institutional framework established by the lisbon treaty, which establishes the conservation of marine biological resources as an exclusive competence of the european union. we need management based on scientific knowledge, taking account of the realities and specificities of each country, each fishing zone, each fleet and each resource, and involving fishermen in the solutions and their implementation. this is very different from the mere decentralized implementation of a centrally defined policy.
as has been said by several speakers, environmentally sustainable, economically viable and socially decent fishing is the objective which we have so far unsuccessfully sought to achieve in the common fisheries policy. the commission's green paper makes a good diagnosis of the situation in the sector, raises many questions, but is very hesitant about solutions. this report also sets out a broad set of principles and consensus-based guidelines which will now need to be translated into concrete action if that objective is to be achieved in the shortest possible time. the rapporteur's effort in seeking them out and, above all, her capacity to accept compromises which removed the most controversial issues from her initial report, are to be commended. the commission now has the enormous responsibility of presenting us with its legislative proposal with the concrete measures that will make it possible to put into practice the principles contained in this report, which i am sure we will adopt by a large majority.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the azorean fishermen here. i also welcome the fact that this report presents a major development compared with the current cfp and includes measures of particular relevance to the outermost regions, such as the distinction between artisanal and industrial fleets and the creation of biogeographical regions. i also welcome the introduction of the amendments by the socialist group, which moderate the rapporteur's initial position in defending individually transferable quotas, as defended by the azorean fisheries organisations. in the same vein, we note the amendments tabled by the socialist group in defence of the principle of relative stability. we believe that the creation of biogeographical regions should be extended to the outermost regions, using them as a model of privileged management appropriate to existing resources. in addition, in order to maintain the good environmental status of marine areas and to respect the precautionary principle, the limit of 100 nautical miles islands should be reassessed, and the recovery of 200 miles is urgent, so that ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank everyone who was here today in the plenary and who has continued to make such a valuable contribution to this long process, which, as the commissioner has just said, must continue in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. the truth is that we know that it is impossible to please everyone in a report. many will say that we have not gone far enough in some respects, others will say that we have gone too far in other respects or even in those respects. i think that what is important at this stage is to stress that we have succeeded in establishing a good balance between the main issues with this report, a broad consensus, and that, taken as a whole, it has the capacity, the potential to respond in a satisfactory way to the needs, i would even say the requirements, of the sector. as we have done in the committee on fisheries, under the chairmanship of mrs fraga, i hope that we will now continue this work within the committee and, more broadly, with the council and the european commission, in moving forward with what is an equally hard job, that of legislative proposals. i believe that if we continue to work in this direction, in a team spirit and understanding that we need to consider all the issues that are important in different parts of our large european union, and if we actually try to respond to all the needs of the fisheries sector in our large exclusive economic zone, we will indeed be working for the sector. that is what we are committed to: to create the conditions for the fisheries sector to be truly sustainable and developed in the long term.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs maria do céu patrão neves on her work and on the report which is now being voted on. the fisheries issue is certainly a sensitive one for the portuguese, since we have several fishing communities, and it is absolutely crucial for the cds-pp. i believe that a new regulation of the cfp is needed, one which is more efficient and adapted to the various territorial realities. i therefore welcome the intention to rely on the principles of regionalization and subsidiarity, giving greater autonomy to the states and greater flexibility to the cfp. at the same time, aware that environmental challenges pose serious problems for fisheries resources, i consider it essential that the new cfp should allow for ecologically sustainable and economically viable fisheries. we are not unaware of the problems facing fishermen, and we want the new cfp to adequately protect the fishing capacity of communities that live off fishing. i also believe that it is essential that the new cfp ensures fish of sufficient quality and quantity to maintain a diet rich in fish, which we now know is more balanced and contributes to a healthy life. i shall be following with interest and particular attention the future reform of the cfp, and i shall always defend portuguese interests in this strategic sector.
the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy embodies the opportunity to review this european policy and does so in its various dimensions (economic, social and environmental), redefining new guidelines with a view to solving the remaining problems in this sector. the reform of the common fisheries policy is particularly important for the outermost regions, where fisheries are of great importance for local development and the lives of the population. the green paper report insists on reforms which i believe are necessary for a better implementation of this policy at regional level, in particular a decentralisation of fisheries management which covers the specificities of the regions and which links the sustainability of the sector with the preservation of species. in madeira, it is imperative to modernise vessels and promote measures to ensure the economic viability of fishing activities. improving the efficiency of fisheries management and a strategy for financial support for fishermen are priorities which i reiterate as essential in this reform and which must be implemented at regional level. the reform of the common fisheries policy marks the beginning of a new phase in the evolution of the sector, with more active participation of the various actors at national, regional and fisheries level.
i would like to say that the amending budget we have just adopted, amounting to eur 13.4 million, with effect from 1 may, i.e. for six months, is very unwise. there is a part of it, which concerns the reinforcement of the human resources of parliamentary committees and parliamentary groups, worth eur 4.5 million, which can be supported because, in fact, the treaty of lisbon places new legislative requirements on this parliament, but increasing by eur 8 million the resources of members for the recruitment of assistants, which will not be 8 but 16 next year, is clearly excessive, even because next year there is a further increase of eur 1500 per month for members, which amounts not to eur 16 but to eur 32 million. at a time when we are faced with a huge situation of unemployment and social crisis in all our countries, it is not sustainable to increase the resources of members without at the same time having the courage to cut the expenditure and the cost-sharing aid to which we as members are entitled, and which are not all, far from it, entirely justified. i cannot understand how a member of the european parliament, on the day he travels, can receive 300 euros in cost-sharing aid, plus the distance allowance and the time allowance, which are entirely tax-free. we can cut unnecessary expenses and then discuss how we can improve our means for legislative production. not to do this at the same time is simply to disregard the difficulties our constituents are going through. we have an obligation to set an example, today we set a bad example.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has given the european union more competence in the field of energy policy. it is essential that the member states work together to ensure that their citizens have a more efficient, safer and cheaper energy policy. it is important to ensure the stability needed to reduce the risk of another gas-related crisis between ukraine and russia and thus provide the security of supply that eu member states and their consumers expect. the eu has made energy one of its top priorities. the energy and climate package aims to increase the competitiveness of eu industry in a world with increasingly restrictive carbon emissions. this regulation on investment projects relating to energy infrastructure in the european union will help to make the market more transparent and more predictable, supporting our companies and creating a positive environment for competitiveness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european community and repealing council regulation (ec) no 736/96, as it will enable the commission to monitor the situation of this infrastructure and anticipate potential problems, particularly of an environmental nature. the importance of environmental impact assessment of energy infrastructure projects should therefore be emphasised, so that their construction and closure can be carried out in a sustainable manner.
in writing. − given the importance of an integrated energy policy, not only to combat climate change and reduce co2 emissions, but also to ensure efficiency and reduce europe's energy dependence, the communication and transmission of data on energy infrastructure investments and projects is essential. it is important for european energy policy that the commission has a current view of the evolution of energy investments in the member states, so that it can develop integrated policies that promote greater energy efficiency and investment in cleaner technologies, ensuring progressive energy independence from external suppliers and fossil fuels. i therefore support this proposal for a regulation, with particular regard to its necessary application, which was not the case with the previous regulation which it is intended to replace.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation contributes to the implementation of a european energy policy aimed at efficiency, reliability and security. energy efficiency is a priority policy of the european union in view of the need to conserve and make the most of resources and the commitments made in the context of combating climate change. i would remind you that before moving on to new projects, the eu's target of 20% energy efficiency should be taken into account. therefore, investment projects in energy infrastructure should be compatible with the objective of achieving, by 2020, the minimum level of 20% for energy from sustainable renewable sources. the energy policy advocated must ensure low carbon production and be based on the principles of solidarity and sustainability. the reliability of the system is important as it must be operated without interruption and the deterioration of the energy supply situation inside and outside the union must be taken into account. the commission also stresses the crucial investment in infrastructure to avoid security problems in energy supply.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that this is indeed an important part of eu energy policy, based on the principle that without adequate information on our energy infrastructures, it is not possible to effectively promote a 'european energy policy at eu level'. but beyond our fundamental disagreement on european energy policy, there is also the legal basis on which this report is based, namely the framework of the internal market. however, there are positive aspects which are also considered here, in particular when it says that it is essential that the confidentiality of the information is guaranteed and that the resulting proposals are neutral and not equivalent to market intervention at political level. in addition, compliance with the reporting obligations should be easy to implement, in order to avoid any unnecessary administrative burden for undertakings and the administration of the member states or the commission. hence our final abstention vote.
in writing. − the eu's energy policy is very relevant to the near future of the use of renewable energy. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, decisions on matters related to energy policy are taken in co-decision, so it is necessary to readjust the regulations on the basis of the new eu legal reality. therefore, in order to enable all member states to communicate in an appropriate and useful way the planned developments in energy infrastructure, a new regulation is needed to make this easier and more agile.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution which stresses the importance of strengthening cooperation between the eu and ukraine. the political and economic stabilisation of ukraine and the strengthening of cooperation between ukraine and the eu in the energy field are essential conditions for the recognition of ukraine's european aspirations. the stability of the eu also depends on the stability of its neighbours.
in writing. - i recall the hope brought by the orange revolution and the break with the past of soviet influence it brought to the ukrainian people. i remember the promises of success, progress, democracy and cooperation that were then made to the ukrainians, both internally and externally. the european union then emerged as the probable destiny of a people who were clearly taking a turn towards the west. after the euphoria, it seems clear today that the protagonists of the orange revolution have failed the challenge, and the popular disillusionment with the country's destiny is equally evident. the election of the candidate defeated by yushchenko in december 2004 demonstrates both a major split in the country and a change in popular sentiment, now more favorable to russian influence. i think it is important that the european union should be able to maintain the attractiveness of ukraine to its sphere and to use the various means at its disposal to this end. i hope that ukraine will persevere and persevere in its drive towards internal democratisation and that, while respecting its past and its history, it will embark on a journey of convergence with the eu, culminating in its accession as a full member.
in writing. − following the break-up of the eastern bloc and the union of soviet republics, the ukrainian people and institutions have been strongly committed to the democratization of the country and the construction of a modern society through the development of a social, economic and political system that allows for the strengthening of the rule of law and respect for human rights, despite the difficulties normally inherent in a state in the process of regenerating its structural organization and political identity. as a reference and promoting area for peace and the economic, social and cultural development of the peoples, the european union has a duty to play a decisive role in the development of the democratic regime in ukraine, in particular by strengthening the mechanisms of european integration. this will also help to pacify regional conflicts within the country, which are of great geostrategic importance for the eu, given relations with russia and central asia, especially at the energy level. in this process, i would also like to stress the contribution of this motion for a resolution to the integration of the strong ukrainian immigrant community into the eu, as well as the value of the role of young people and education in the social, economic and cultural progress of ukraine.
in writing. − the recent elections in ukraine and, in the light of the statements by the osce/odhir election observation mission, which considered that international standards were largely met, are a sign that this country continues to move positively towards future integration into the eu area. it is important, however, that ukrainian politicians and authorities work to ensure that political and economic stabilisation is a reality in the near future. this requires the implementation of the necessary constitutional reforms, consolidation of the rule of law, establishment of a social market economy and renewed efforts to combat corruption and improve the business and investment climate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the 13th session of the united nations human rights council. the new eu institutional structure offers a unique opportunity to increase the eu's coherence, visibility and credibility in the un human rights council. the action of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy will also increase the eu's capacity to cooperate with countries in other regional blocs to end human rights violations, including violence directed at women and children.
in writing. − the politicization of the human rights council and the constant blockade of stronger positions condemning human rights violations in various parts of the world justify a change in its structure and mode of action. the announced candidacy of iran is yet another sign that the path taken by this body may be unreliable and unsafe and that states with a history of repeated human rights violations may use membership of this council to seek to whitewash these same violations. the european union must actively participate in the council's work, aware of its limitations and problems, and seek to impose a balanced but rigorous and demanding view of what respect for human rights should be. if you do, you will be living up to your particular responsibilities in this matter.
in writing. − the human rights council (unhrc) is a platform devoted to universal human rights and is a specific forum dedicated to human rights in the united nations system. the promotion and safeguarding of the universality of human rights are part of the legal, ethical and cultural heritage of the european union and constitute a foundation of its unity and integrity. i am sure that the eu member states will actively oppose any attempt to weaken the concepts of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights. i hope that the member states will actively participate in the annual interactive debate on the rights of persons with disabilities and in the annual meeting on the rights of the child. i stress the importance of the 13th session of the unhrc, which will be attended by ministers and other high-level representatives, and which has on its agenda the economic and financial crisis and the united nations declaration on human rights education and training. finally, i welcome the renewed commitment of the united states to the united nations bodies and its subsequent election as a member of the unhrc, as well as the constructive work in the field of freedom of expression carried out at the 64th un general assembly.
in writing. - we strongly agree with the concept set out in the report on the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights. however, starting from these same assumptions, it is necessary to underline the irreconcilable contradiction between this perspective and the profound attack on the rights of workers and peoples that the crisis of the capitalist system is generating, namely: high unemployment rates, increasing poverty, increasingly difficult access to quality public services at affordable prices. unfortunately, the majority of the ep did not take this contradiction into account. we regret the rejection of proposals from our group, in particular the following: - stresses that un member states should promote food sovereignty and food security as a means of reducing poverty and unemployment; - welcomes the fact that a report by the united nations high commissioner for human rights on human rights violations in honduras since the coup d'état is on the agenda for its 13th session; calls on the eu member states to make efforts to support a strong condemnation of the coup and the restoration of democracy and the rule of law in that country; - expresses its concern at the situation in colombia, in particular the discovery of thousands of unidentified dead;
in writing. - the human rights council is an intergovernmental body whose main purpose is to respond to situations of human rights violations, and given that one of the foundations of european unity and integrity is respect for and safeguarding the universality of human rights, i would just like to leave a vote of encouragement to the unhrc to continue to oppose all forms of discrimination.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on beijing + 15 un platform for action on gender equality, taking into account that the strategic objectives of the beijing platform have not yet been achieved and that gender inequality and stereotypes persist, with women continuing to occupy a subordinate position to men in the areas covered by the platform. we regret the lack of up-to-date, reliable and comparable data at both national and eu level for the indicators approved for the follow-up of the beijing platform, including women and poverty, violence against women, institutional mechanisms, women and armed conflict and female children. the commission should continue to develop the annual evaluation of the implementation of the beijing platform for action and make effective use of the indicators and analytical reports as a contribution to different policy areas and as a basis for further initiatives towards the achievement of gender equality. we reiterate the need to systematically implement and monitor the integration of the gender perspective in legislative and budgetary processes as well as in other relevant processes, strategies, programmes and projects in different policy areas.
in writing. − gender equality is a fundamental principle in our day, but inequalities between men and women persist and the strategic objectives of the beijing platform are still far from being achieved. i welcome the motion for a resolution voted on today in this house as an incentive to strengthen the institutional mechanisms for promoting equality between men and women. the mainstreaming of gender in development cooperation is essential to promote a more prosperous, fairer and richer society. i would like to stress the importance of the role of women in science and technology. women are increasingly present in areas of scientific research, yet they remain far from the top of careers and decision-making centres. harnessing this potential is essential to promote a fair balance and to support growth and jobs. it is essential to consider gender mainstreaming in different policy areas as one of the pillars for a richer, more prosperous and fairer society.
in writing. - as a strong supporter of human rights and the principle of equality, i could not question initiatives aimed at protecting the rights of women and girls, who are often severely violated, in a world where women are still the main victims of crimes against their physical integrity and sexual self-determination. however, equality between men and women must not, at any time, forget the natural, social and cultural differences between the sexes: equal rights is not the same as equal treatment. it is necessary to treat men and women equally, giving them the same rights but taking into account their special needs, which in the case of women is evident in areas such as maternity protection, reconciliation of work and family life and very special protection against crimes which are essentially committed against women and children, such as sexual exploitation, trafficking in human beings or ill-treatment. finally, i would stress that any initiative by the union in this area cannot be intended to confer on women, in the name of their sexual and reproductive health, a right to voluntary termination of pregnancy, a matter which must remain the exclusive sphere of decision of the states.
in writing. − gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union, enshrined in the ec treaty. it is thus a specific mission of the union to promote and mainstream equality between women and men. it is unquestionable that today, in both the underdeveloped and the developed countries - and specifically in the european union - the deplorable reality of gender discrimination persists at the most diverse social, economic and cultural levels. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive products. this structural problem is a barrier to the progress and development of communities in particular and of humanity in general. i believe that eradicating domestic violence is an absolute priority, and for this it will be important to ensure cultural, social and economic equality between men and women. the economic and financial crisis, the impact of climate change and the ageing of society are variables that the european commission and the member states should take into account in their actions and policies aimed at promoting gender equality.
in writing. - inequalities between men and women at various levels, whether occupational, sectoral or stereotypically varied, have been eroding over the years. equality between men and women in the eu is increasingly a reality and, although there are still situations of discrimination, we note the very positive developments we have seen.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament increased powers. on the other hand, in a globalised world, matters are becoming increasingly complex and decisions need to be based on technical and scientific knowledge. it is essential that policy-makers are aware of recent scientific developments to enable them to make the best choices. this budget takes the decisions with cuts in the building section and increases in technical support to members provides the means for this parliament to perform its duties with excellence and with the scientific and technical foundations so necessary in the 21st century.
in writing. − in view of the new role of the european parliament in the context of the lisbon treaty and the new tasks conferred on it, and in view of the commitment made when the 2010 budget was adopted, it makes sense to increase the funds available to parliament for its functioning, ensuring all the material and human conditions so that this body can fulfil its tasks in the new institutional framework with rigor and excellence. this increase in funding should not, however, jeopardise the budgetary sustainability and the strictness of accounts which are necessary in any institution. in addition, the management of the funds made available under this budget should be rigorous and transparent.
in writing. − this amending budget for the financial year 2010, relating to the budget of the european parliament (section i of the general budget of the union), now amounts to eur 1 616 760 399, which represents 19.99% of the initial heading 5, adopted at first reading. we have reduced the reserve for buildings from eur 15 million to eur 11 million in this amendment. the need for this budget arises from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. parliament is taking on new powers, new responsibilities. our priority is legislative excellence, and to achieve this we must give members, committees and political groups the means to do so. the legal, budgetary and financial discipline rules are respected in this amending budget. as rapporteur for this budget for the epp, i believe that budgetary rigor and the desire to save must be present, more than ever, during its implementation. i therefore reiterate the importance of drawing up a 'zero-base' budget which ensures greater rigor and transparency and i ask for urgent information on the ep's fixed expenditure. i would stress the need for long-term planning of housing policy to ensure fiscal sustainability.
in writing. - the adoption and subsequent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon brings increased responsibility for the european parliament, with the corresponding administrative burden. since legislative excellence is a priority for the european parliament, it is necessary to provide members with the necessary material and human resources to make this a reality. this new budgetary allocation must, however, respect the utilization ratios of the amounts of heading 5 (administrative appropriations) of the mff, which have been set at 20% of the value of that heading, in order to maintain budgetary sustainability.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon led to the adoption of a proposal to amend the budget for the financial year 2010 to cover the additional budgetary needs of the european parliament. considering that legislative excellence is the priority of the european parliament, i stress the importance of giving members, committees and political groups the means to achieve it and the means to accommodate their overall needs in terms of long-term real estate policy. the amending budget for the financial year 2010 thus amounts to eur 1 616 760 399, which represents 19.99% of the initial heading 5, approved at first reading, and the reserve for buildings, which was eur 15 million, has been reduced to eur 11 million. i would stress the importance of including in the report the achievement of a zero-based budget which ensures greater budgetary sustainability and the need for it to be in line with the annual legislative programme. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document which will enable the european parliament to be provided with adequate means to meet the expenses associated with its new role after the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the fisheries sector is of strategic importance for the socioeconomic well-being of coastal communities, local development, employment, preservation and creation of economic activities. it is essential to ensure the sustainable development of this sector, both economically and socially, but it is also necessary to ensure the maintenance of good environmental status in all marine waters of the european union. the implementation of the cfp is directly linked to issues such as environmental protection, climate change, security, public health, consumer protection and regional development, internal and international trade, relations with third countries and development cooperation, and it is therefore essential to ensure fair and careful harmonisation between all these areas. i stress the need to use a coherent framework within the european research area to support the sustainable use of oceans and seas. it is also essential to take account of the nature of the constraints affecting the outermost regions (ors), the permanence, intensity and combination of which differentiate them from other eu regions with geographical disadvantages and/or demographic problems.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs patrão neves on her excellent report on the reform of the common fisheries policy. the numerous problems and challenges of the cfp were identified in 2002 and have now been compounded by the economic and energy crises and the adverse effects of climate change. the cfp must introduce a set of far-reaching changes to serve the interests of today's fisheries, ensuring a fair balance between conservation of resources and the profitability of the sector, and opening the door to new management systems for the different fisheries in the eu. i welcome the concern to decentralise and de-bureaucratise the cfp and to regionalise fisheries management within the limits imposed by the lisbon treaty, as well as the need to ensure differentiated treatment for small-scale coastal fishing and industrial fishing, while respecting environmental, economic and social requirements. i would also stress the defence of the interests of community fisheries, but the national governments must be given the necessary support, since they must make fishing a strategic priority for the economic and social viability of coastal communities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy because essential commitments were made which made it possible to clearly improve the initial proposal. i would like to stress the importance of introducing an environmental and social approach in the search for new fisheries management systems which are complementary to the current system, based on the principle of relative stability.
in writing. - i would first like to stress the excellence of the report drawn up by mrs patrão neves. fisheries communities are currently facing a period of difficulty characterised by a sharp deterioration in fishery resources: this activity has an impact on the food supply of the general population and on the cohesion of the peripheral regions of the european union. an integrated and comprehensive approach to the reform of the common fisheries policy is therefore needed. i consider it urgent and essential that the european union should make an effective effort to ensure better conditions for economic sustainability for fishermen, within a framework which safeguards the specificities of each region and which recognises the differentiated attention to be given to small-scale fishing. i would stress the need for concrete measures, such as reducing the number of intermediaries in the chain between producer and consumer. the reform cannot be dissociated from the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, in a process of scientific and technical evaluation, which will contribute to the pacification of the sector and, at the same time, will have an impact on the quality and food safety of consumers. in the context of the adjustment of fishing capacity, i would stress the impact of the modernisation of equipment on the professional dignity and safety of fishermen in a sector where human losses are recurrent.
in writing. - the rejection by the majority of this parliament of the proposals we have put forward, rejecting the privatisation of fisheries resources, is indicative of the path that the next reform of the cfp is intended to take. the parliament not only does not reject the commission's proposal to create (private) property rights for access to the exploitation of a public good - it was necessary - but it paves the way for the enshrinement of this desired right. this is an option which does not safeguard the sustainability of resources and which will inevitably lead to a concentration of activity in the entities with the greatest economic and financial power at eu level, seriously threatening small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing which, in the case of portugal, represents more than 90% of the fleet. we note some positive aspects of the report, which in some cases correspond to the proposals we have put forward, but we cannot fail to note that, overall, the report does not depart from a very liberal framework and a strong limitation of the sovereignty of the states over their marine resources. the commission has also failed to give a full answer to one of the core problems facing the sector: the problem of earnings from activity. we cannot but note the rejection of the proposals we have put forward to improve the marketing of the sector by increasing the remuneration of fishermen's work.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy, last revised in 2002, is no longer the most appropriate policy to deal with the vicissitudes of this sensitive sector. it is therefore necessary to analyse the new factors influencing it and to find new solutions to make it more viable at all levels, including economic, social and environmental. it is therefore urgent to take further measures to help the fisheries sector to overcome the precarious situation in which it finds itself. fishing is very important in the eu. it is therefore essential that the new cfp takes account of the rational and responsible management of resources, that it is concerned with the protection of marine resources and with the maintenance of the livelihoods of those who have always lived from fishing. the new cfp must be able to solve the productivity problems of the sector, stabilise markets and ensure a good standard of living for the families who depend on it. however, this sector must be analysed in a global rather than a segmented way so that we can integrate all the problems and vicissitudes of the sector, so that the problems can be solved in a way that satisfies everyone and thus overcome the major problems affecting it: over-fishing, overcapacity, over-investment and waste.
in writing. - the report on the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, which we adopted today, sets out a review of the policy in its economic, social and environmental dimensions, with the aim of redefining the guidelines for solving the remaining problems in the sector. improving the efficiency of fisheries management and a strategy for financial support for fishermen, as well as ensuring the sustainability of the sector through the preservation of species, are priorities which i reiterate as essential in this reform and which must be implemented at regional level. this document stresses the need for reforms in the fisheries sector, which is of great importance in the outermost regions, particularly in madeira, where this activity plays a major role in local development and the lives of the population. i repeat the ideas expressed in the report on the need for more active involvement of the various actors at national, regional and local level in implementing and technical measures to be taken in the fisheries sector. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which will be the beginning of a new phase in the european common fisheries policy.
mr president, on this occasion marking the centenary of the proclamation of international women's day, which has become a symbol of revolutionary struggle, a world day of action by women for their rights and against all forms of discrimination, i greet all women, but in a very special way all those who continue to be victims of discrimination, inequalities and various forms of violence. and at this point it is important to highlight the timeliness of this struggle for equality in law and in life, bearing in mind that the crisis of capitalism has particular consequences for the lives of women, the main victims of precarious and low-paid work. and from poverty! women make up the majority of the 85 million people living in poverty in the european union. therefore, while we mark this day and urge all women not to give up on their dreams, we insist on the priority of fighting injustice and discrimination, tearing new horizons for a better life and equality.
mr president, when the euro was strong a year or two ago, the wall street journal bet on its fall and explained how it could happen. the economies of the euro are very diverse, he said. just let the most vulnerable fall. that's what happened, and nowadays everyone complains about foreign speculators. but it would be better if they complained about themselves than about the european leaders. no one has forced us to make a monetary union without political union and without social cohesion. and no one has forced us to hesitate and falter when the economies, the so-called "peripheral" economies, are under attack. one thing must be made very clear: there are no peripheral economies. when a euro economy is under attack, it is the euro that is under attack, it is the union that is under attack and it must respond in solidarity. the same solidarity that was for eastern europe, that was for germany in its reunification. if it wasn't for solidarity today, it will be for self-interest later, given the size of these markets and the size of their debt and the exposure that the central european banks have to them. it better be out of solidarity.
in the last three months, six very serious maritime accidents have occurred in portugal, in which thirteen fishermen have lost their lives, eight of whom have not yet been recovered, and there has also been a total loss of vessels, the livelihood of many others. the fishing communities of castelo de neive, matosinhos, setúbal, areosa, peniche and caminha are in mourning, and i want to join them in this witness today. in a very harsh winter, with few days of work and little support for fishermen on land, we are forced to go to sea in adverse conditions. the ageing of some vessels, the lack of safety on board and good training at this level further increase the potential for accidents. this is an unacceptable reality which must be eradicated. in this context, the establishment of conditions guaranteeing the safety of fishermen should be one of the priority objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy through investment in the modernisation of vessels, the strengthening of safety measures, training of fishermen in basic safety and decent living conditions when the state of the sea advises to stay ashore.
for the gue/ngl group i believe that the technical discussion we have to have is undoubtedly very important, but it cannot hide the fact that the choice before us is a political one. and so to conduct and build the whole argument on a technical basis to avoid having to make the political choice is not very legitimate. mr haglund, for example, explained that if we had a tobin tax, we would not have avoided the financial crisis. and i might agree with him, but we would certainly have much more resources to be able to combat the effects of the financial crisis on our economies and on the most disadvantaged sectors of the european population. and that is, therefore, the question at stake here. and the second aspect concerns... and that is why i was not convinced by commissioner šemeta's answer, either on the timetable or on the substance. in the end, what commissioner šemeta is telling us, as is mr gauzès, is that the levy is an attractive and very interesting idea, but we cannot do it on a european scale. it has to be global. we understand each other. to say that is to tell people that there will never be a tobin tax on a planetary scale. and therefore, there's no point in us being here to cheat. what is being said here is that it is either global or it cannot be. what they're saying is, it's not going to happen. and i have a completely different perspective: i think the european union is a strong enough financial market that a general residual tax on all transactions can be done without capital flight. but above all, we would be telling our citizens something absolutely decisive. it's that in this crisis, at least residually, the financial capital that brought us into the crisis, at least residually, has to pay. and the purpose of this was fundamentally and precisely to combat hunger and poverty on an international scale and to begin to finance the building of a social pillar in the european construction, which is the pillar that we lack and do not have. the citizens understood this very well.
mr president, the european parliament is right to raise a number of questions on this subject and not to take a definitive position on the new financial transaction tax. there are, in fact, several reasons for this. we have heard from the advocates of the tax. that it is a political problem, that technical solutions are of little interest. first, you go through the rate, then you see how it's going to be applied. it's a mistake. i know. it is not ideology that will solve the problem of the financial crisis. secondly, that this would be a tax which could help the most disadvantaged, a sort of robin hood tax, because the most advantaged outgrow their situation with economic growth. the problem of european or global scale is of little importance. it's also an escape from the issue. what would happen if only europe had this kind of tax? there are a few elements that have to be taken into account. in a time of crisis, a new tax is not going to solve anything. it is not with a new tax that we are going to solve the problem of public finances. it is not a new tax, which acts as a kind of sanction tax, a punishment tax. a tax that's meant to punish those responsible for the crisis. the final consumers are the ones who suffer from a new tax. the people who are going to suffer from a new tax are the people who need credit. secondly, there are a number of technical problems to be solved. the ones who don't care. is there a european administrative system that can apply such a tax? does anyone know what the cost of this same application is? can anyone tell me what effect it has on liquidity and credit? how will a global tax be applied to time differences and transactions made by the second? how do you control all this? all these questions are unanswered. it seems to me that in a crisis, lessons must be learned, actions must be taken. i doubt it's a new tax.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr lehne on the report he has presented to us, on the capacity for dialogue and openness he has shown on this subject and on his conviction in defending micro-entities. because if the measure we are discussing here today has a history, it is especially important in the context of the fight against the crisis. because it exempts small businesses from expensive, bureaucratic measures that are not essential to transparency. the transparency of the relationship between companies and the state is essential if their tax obligations are to be maintained. companies that are totally different cannot be treated equally. small and large companies cannot be treated equally. this is also the time to defend small and mediumsized enterprises, to go from words to deeds. it is the opportunity to advocate for smes simpler measures, less cost, which will naturally lead to the possibility of more jobs and more growth. unfortunately, we are seeing across europe the closure of many of these small businesses, and that is why we should not judge, that is why we should act. and that is precisely what the party i represent here has presented to the portuguese parliament. that is why i am calling on the various portuguese members to vote in favour of this measure and thus to put pressure on the council to end the blocking position which the portuguese government is unfortunately taking. i would like to conclude by saying that this is the report which can take a crucial step not only towards combating the crisis but also towards simplifying and reducing costs for small businesses, which are in such need of them.
in writing. the prosperity of the eu will depend on the success of smes. the eu and the member states must therefore create a favourable environment for these companies. the biggest obstacle cited by smes is the completion of administrative formalities. in fact, smes bear a disproportionate regulatory and administrative burden compared to large companies. it is estimated that for every euro a large company spends on a worker due to regulatory obligations, a small company may have to spend up to ten euros. the commission proposal extends the concept of micro-enterprises to include enterprises which, at the balance sheet date, do not exceed the limits of two of the following criteria: balance sheet total of eur 500 000, net turnover of eur 1 000 000 and/or an average number of employees during the financial year of 10 persons. member states may choose to exempt such micro-enterprises from the application of the community directive on annual accounts. in any case, micro-enterprises will continue to keep their sales and transaction records for the purposes of their management and tax information. in portugal, 356 140 portuguese companies can be covered by this exemption.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about absurd situations, such as a student who obtains a visa to come to belgium to study. since he is not covered by directive 2004/114/ec, he cannot go to the netherlands to collect information in a specialist library in order to write his thesis or to take advantage of a weekend to visit barcelona because he is detained in the country that issued the visa. the schengen convention provides that holders of a long-stay visa may only reside in the territory of the member state which issued the visa. they shall not travel to other member states or transit through other member states on their return to their country of origin. schengen means freedom of movement. anyone who is legally resident in a member state should be able to move freely within that area where there are no internal borders. the ideal solution would be for member states to comply with their obligation to grant a residence permit to third-country nationals holding such a visa. but that is not the case in the vast majority of member states. member states have temporarily reversed this situation by issuing d+c visas, allowing long-stay visa holders to move freely within the schengen area during the first three months. these visas will be abolished as from april 2010 with the entry into force of the community visa code, which makes it more urgent to find a solution to this problem. the amendments i have proposed, which have the support of the majority of the members of the libe committee, help to solve this problem without reducing the level of security in the schengen area. the obligation to consult the schengen information service when processing long-stay visa applications is a procedure identical to that already in place for third-country nationals holding residence permits. we are thus responding to fears of increased insecurity. it is true that several member states have issued long-stay visas and, subsequently, residence permits without consulting the sis, in particular the article 96 alerts for refusal of admission. this practice undermines the security of the schengen area and creates problems at the external borders when persons with a valid visa are flagged in sis. this creates unnecessary and complicated situations for people and border guards who will have to try to find out whether the visas are forged or whether the entry in the sis is incorrect and should be deleted or whether these visas should never have been issued. the initiative we are going to vote on will allow long-stay visa holders to move freely for a period of three months every six months, the same as for holders of residence permits, while binding member states to the obligation to issue residence permits if they allow a stay of more than one year. the need to strengthen the existing level of data protection in the schengen convention is also recognised and the european commission is recommended to present the necessary initiatives if sis ii does not start to be applied by 2012. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the two initial proposals were merged and given a new legal basis. the text we are voting on in this house is the result of negotiations with the swedish and spanish presidencies. it translates into an agreement at first reading, thus allowing this regulation to be adopted before the entry into force of the visa code. mr president, i would have liked to have asked the spanish presidency, which is absent from this debate, to give parliament the assurance that the regulation can enter into force by 5 april 2010. it is essential that this objective can be achieved in such a way as to avoid a legal vacuum. i congratulate the european commission on the timely initiative. i am grateful for the loyal cooperation of the council, in particular the swedish and spanish presidencies, and the cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs, which have enabled a broad consensus to be reached in the libe committee. with this measure we have solved a delicate problem for thousands of third country nationals and we are doing it well, by strengthening freedom and security.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, whose proposal i support, as do the other shadow rapporteurs of the libe committee. i have already had the opportunity to say here that carlos coelho is doing a good job of promoting freedom of movement within the european union, the rights of citizens - whether european citizens or citizens of foreign countries - and european democracy as a whole, understood not only as the whole of its citizens, but also as the contribution of the thousands and thousands of citizens or millions of citizens of third countries who pass through the european area, who reside here, who come here for longer or shorter periods to work and study. carlos coelho worked with the contribution of the shadow rapporteurs in an excellent environment of information and cooperation. above all, it was on time, and time is crucial here, since we are dealing with the concrete lives of people. like others who have spoken before me, i could give some examples of students, researchers and scientists who come to europe because their work is recognised as being of high quality, but who are then not allowed to cross our borders, which, in some cases, for those coming from other continents, are short and narrow. in two hours a researcher leaves portugal for spain, for the border of another member state or better, does not leave, if he has, as in some cases, a visa to carry out a master's degree in two years and cannot leave the country to make his contribution, to carry out research in another member state. we have had to deal with these cases on a number of occasions, for example when we want to have someone's input in a debate in brussels. and let us note that this is not just an unnecessary and unfair burden on the third country citizen we are talking about. it's a waste for us who were counting on your input. it's a waste for our competitiveness when we compare, for example, the mobility of this kind of foreign citizens in, for example, the united states, or china, or india, or brazil, and then we see the barriers to their mobility in the european union. it is a waste for the mobility of our workforce, of our scientific community -- when we realize that this is very important, this increased mobility, in times of crisis like the one we are going through, and it is a waste also for the knowledge society. it is time for the council to implement these proposals before the visa code in april creates further unnecessary obstacles to the mobility of these people. i would therefore like to say that our group supports the rapporteur's proposal and will vote in accordance with it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, four final points. first to lament the empty council seat during this debate. the second is to thank commissioner malmström for her kind references and to ask her to help the council to ensure that this regulation enters into force on 5 april. otherwise we will have a legal vacuum with consequences for concrete people. thirdly, to regret that the members who took part in the debate here, in drawing attention to the problems of security, were not able to recognise the improvements which this parliament has introduced in this regulation, in particular the obligation of prior consultation of the schengen information system. as i said in my opening speech, i believe that parliament has done its job well, because it has improved freedom of movement, but it has also improved safety. to not recognize it is to want to look only at one side of the truth, and not the whole truth. and finally, mr president, to thank all those who have collaborated to this end. those who have allowed, in particular the commission and the council, for us to have an agreement at first reading, but also all those political groups in the libe committee and the legal affairs committee who have allowed for this broad consensus. i believe that when we share a solution in this way, we are also doing our job in the best way.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is a short statement to remind you that the community visa code will come into force on 5 april next month, and it is therefore essential that this new regulation should come into force by that date. in the absence of the council, i would like to put it in the minutes that this is the wish of the european parliament, if my report is to be made viable, as i hope.
in writing. the commission proposal concerns the procedures for allocating the sifim for the purpose of determining the gni of the member states used for the purposes of the union budget and its own resources. sifim indirectly measured financial intermediation services represents a part of the output of financial institutions that is not realised in the form of direct sales of services at a fixed price, but rather by charging an interest rate (higher than that applied to deposits) on loans. the commission proposes to carry out the allocation of sifim for the determination of gni and considers that this allocation should be carried out retroactively from 1 january 2005, the date of entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1889/2002. however, the proposed retroactive application from 1 january 2005 raises questions as to the exact extent of the retroactivity of the decision. it therefore agrees with the rapporteur's position that the allocation of sifim for the determination of gni does not start until 1 january 2010. this ensures that the allocation of sifim is properly carried out from 2010 onwards, thus resulting in a more accurate calculation of gni.
in writing. − the breakdown of indirectly measured financial intermediation services (imfis) for the purpose of determining the gross national income (gni) of the member states used for the purposes of the union budget and its own resources is an old concern and should have been implemented as early as 2005. however, the need to test it to assess the accuracy of this method, in order to ascertain whether it actually provided reliable results for the correct quantification of the economic activity concerned, delayed its implementation. i agree that the implementation of this method should not have retroactive effects, in order to avoid conflicts between member states and possible legal recourse.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade. the scope of the egf was extended to applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. i support this proposal to mobilise eur 6 199 341 for germany, in response to a request made by germany on 13 august 2009 to cover assistance for workers made redundant in the karmann group in the automotive industry. in 2008, the three institutions confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions to mobilise the fund, so as to be able to help people in a timely manner. it took seven months to adopt this decision. i hope that the procedure for activating the solidarity fund can be carried out as quickly as possible, so that we can deal with disaster situations requiring an immediate response, as is the case with the recent tragedy in madeira.
in writing. the german group karmann, once prosperous and competitive, has been caught up in the crisis in the automobile sector and has entered bankruptcy proceedings. it has recently been partially bought by volkswagen. eur 6 199 341 from the european globalisation adjustment fund is requested to support and assist 1 793 workers made redundant in this group. the commission considers that the eligibility criteria for mobilising this fund are met and that the european union is fully justified in coming to the aid of workers in difficulty. i hope that this less favourable period in the lives of the workers made redundant will nevertheless allow them to improve their skills and qualifications and that this improvement will result in a rapid return to the labour market.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant as a result of major changes in the structure of international trade. in this way, solutions are sought for their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. this proposal concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 199 341 from the egf in favour of germany to cover assistance for workers made redundant in an undertaking, the karmann group (automotive industry). in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it should be ensured that the egf individually supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into new jobs. the egf does not replace actions for which undertakings are responsible under national law or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of undertakings or sectors. it is again emphasised that, in the context of mobilising the egf, the commission should not systematically transfer payment appropriations from the european social fund, since the egf was set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines.
in writing. - the requests for the mobilisation of this fund are made in succession. in this case, the commission was responding to a request from germany for assistance in the case of redundancies in the automobile industry in the karmann group. it should be noted first of all that this fund, given the budgetary constraints imposed (which limit it to eur 500 million per year) and the restrictive eligibility criteria it presents, only partially mitigates some of the consequences of the severe economic and financial crisis. the number of workers made redundant as a result of so-called restructuring has long since exceeded the commission's initial estimates of the number of workers who could benefit from the fund. what is needed is a clear break with the neoliberal policies which are causing the visible economic and social disaster in the countries of the european union. much more than mere palliatives of this disaster, of course also necessary. we must also point out the injustice of a regulation which benefits the countries with the highest incomes, in particular with higher wages and unemployment benefits. we insist on the urgent need for a genuine plan to support production and the creation of jobs with rights in the countries of the european union.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of this. these supports are essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to help them to regain access to a new job in the future. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries, notably portugal and spain, and it is now up to germany to provide this aid.
in writing. − one of the features of the european globalisation adjustment fund is that it seeks to promote entrepreneurship. this promotion must be understood by the european institutions and national governments as a crucial element in meeting the challenges facing the european productive fabric. i believe that public action must be taken not only through such promotion but also, and above all, by removing artificial and bureaucratic obstacles to business activity. and there is still much to be done in this regard. if measures to provide for, re-place and re-qualify those who are thrown out of work by globalisation - such as workers in the lithuanian refrigerator manufacturing sector, in particular at ab snaigė and two of its suppliers - are right, those that seek to strengthen companies and their staff in an open and increasingly competitive economy, while preserving fairness and healthy competition, are no less right.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of this. these supports are essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to help them to regain access to a new job in the future. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries, notably portugal and spain, and it is now up to lithuania to provide this aid.
in writing. - the fact that more and more european countries are requesting the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) makes it clear that the effects of this phenomenon have been felt everywhere, thus confirming the name given to it. while globalisation has proved to be beneficial overall, it is nevertheless necessary to take account of the circumstances in which it affects the least competitive sectors. this is the case in the building sector in lithuania. the fact that this is a specific, individual and time-limited assistance calls on all policy-makers, employers and workers to find new ways of regaining lost competitiveness and access to new markets. without these, support such as that provided by the egf will be purely palliative and will eventually prove insufficient.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant as a result of major changes in the structure of international trade. in this way, solutions are sought for their reintegration into the labour market. the european union must use all its means to respond to the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis and in this context the egf can play a crucial role in helping unemployed workers to reintegrate. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. this proposal concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 1 118 893 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for lithuania to provide assistance to workers made redundant in 128 companies operating in the civil construction sector. it is again emphasised that, in the context of mobilising the egf, the commission should not systematically transfer payment appropriations from the european social fund, since the egf was set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines.
in writing. - the requests for the mobilisation of this fund are made in succession. the case concerned a request for assistance from lithuania following redundancies in 128 companies active in the construction sector. it should be noted first of all that this fund, given the budgetary constraints imposed (which limit it to eur 500 million per year) and the restrictive eligibility criteria it presents, only partially mitigates some of the consequences of the severe economic and financial crisis. the number of workers made redundant as a result of so-called restructuring has long since exceeded the commission's initial estimates of the number of workers who could benefit from the fund. what is needed is a clear break with the neoliberal policies which are causing the visible economic and social disaster in the countries of the european union. much more than mere palliatives of this disaster, of course also necessary. we must also point out the injustice of a regulation which benefits the countries with the highest incomes, in particular with higher wages and unemployment benefits. we insist on the urgent need for a genuine plan to support production and the creation of jobs with rights in the countries of the european union.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of this. these supports are essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. in this case, the aim is to support the unemployed in more than 120 companies in the construction sector which have been forced to close their doors in the face of the major crisis affecting the sector. the egf is intended to assist all those affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries, notably portugal and spain, and it is now up to lithuania to provide this aid.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. since 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf has been extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic and financial crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious economic and financial crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond to the consequences of this crisis, particularly in terms of the support to be given to people who have been confronted, overnight, with the reality of unemployment. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal concerning the mobilisation of the egf in lithuania to support workers made redundant in the 128 companies operating in the construction sector.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution in order to ensure the environmental sustainability of the atlantic regions, in particular the union's islands, which are an essential element in their maritime dimension and which are faced with specific problems and needs, environmental problems being an example. the case of the azores, which has the largest exclusive economic zone in the european union, is worth mentioning. in the context of this discussion, it is necessary to ensure environmental monitoring of the atlantic seas, since the lives of the populations of these islands depend on the good environmental status of their marine waters, and it is important to clearly define minimum environmental quality objectives and, at the same time, monitoring programmes to ensure this same good environmental status. there is also a need to address the cases referred to by the rapporteur, such as shipping accidents or plastic bags, which can have devastating consequences for the economic, social and environmental sustainability of the atlantic regions, which requires the implementation of specific measures appropriate to the environmental and socioeconomic reality of the marine ecosystems that the atlantic hosts. the conclusion is therefore that the conclusion of these agreements is important for the sustainable development of the populations dependent on the atlantic.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusion of this additional protocol, which resolves a political conflict which prevented spain and morocco from ratifying the cooperation agreement for the protection of the coasts and waters of the north-east atlantic against pollution (lisbon agreement). the protection of coastlines and waters is of strategic importance for the socioeconomic well-being of coastal communities, local development, employment, preservation and creation of economic activities. it is necessary to ensure that good environmental status is maintained in all marine waters of the european union in order to ensure sustainable development. this protocol is directly linked to issues such as environmental protection, climate change, security, public health, regional development, relations with third countries and development cooperation. this protocol, which will make it possible to combat a variety of forms of pollution in the atlantic, is essential to ensure the fight against pollution or the risk of pollution of the seas or coasts, through a mechanism designed to ensure cooperation between the contracting parties in the event of a pollution accident and obliges them to establish and implement their own emergency structures and plans.
in writing. - twenty years after its signature, the cooperation agreement for the protection of the coasts and waters of the north-east atlantic against pollution, concluded between portugal, spain, france, morocco and the eu, is now ready to enter into force, following its ratification by all the contracting parties. the council now proposes that the additional protocol be concluded on behalf of the european community, which will finally allow the agreement to enter into force. this agreement is of the utmost importance to portugal, given the size of its coast and the importance of the sea to the national economy, and not forgetting the disasters erika and prestige, so i congratulate the council and the states on the conclusion of this additional protocol and i hope that the agreement will enter into force quickly and effectively, which will allow greater safety for our coasts against ecological accidents such as some that have unfortunately marked the recent past of our coasts.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report, which will allow the entry into force of a network of regional agreements on marine pollution concluded between the eu and some member states and neighbouring third countries. in the present case, we have the lisbon agreement, which was signed in october 1990 but never entered into force because of a territorial dispute between spain and morocco, two of the contracting parties, over the southern (western sahara) border referred to in article 3 (c) of the agreement. the additional protocol, which provided for a solution to the conflict and an appropriate wording for article 3 (c), was signed only in may 2008 by portugal, spain, france and morocco. with the conclusion of this additional protocol, the lisbon agreement may enter into force 20 years after its signature. in addition to the safety dimension, this protocol aims at environmental protection. we all know the ecological disasters that have threatened the coasts of our countries in recent years. it is hoped that these standards will help to avoid accidents like the erika and the prestige, because the sea knows no physical or political boundaries and requires a sharing of efforts and concerted action.
in writing. the european community has been involved in various regional agreements on marine pollution which facilitate mutual assistance and cooperation between member states. this network of agreements includes the cooperation agreement for the protection of the coasts and waters of the north-east atlantic (lisbon agreement), promoted by portugal, which did not enter into force due to a territorial dispute between spain and morocco. i believe that, on behalf of the environmental standards promoted by the eu, and once agreement has been reached on the additional protocol, the lisbon agreement can finally be put into practice.
in writing. − in the european union, almost 50% of the european population lives in coastal regions, which in itself requires increased attention to the preservation and integrated management of these regions. in this context, it is essential to ensure that the eu has integrated coastal zone management, as the european commission has already advocated in a communication on this subject. it is also important to note that 80% of the waste and pollution in the sea originates on land, which is why a concerted strategy is needed to combat this scourge on land. ocean pollution and coastal degradation in europe is not only an environmental issue but also an economic one, since in some countries, such as portugal, the practice of tourism for maritime activities such as whale watching, diving and others is already an important source of income for some regions, notably the azores, madeira and the algarve. 'like overfishing, water pollution has also contributed significantly to the current depletion of some stocks of species which are important fisheries resources, and therefore calls for full implementation of the marine environment directive, the environmental pillar of the integrated maritime policy strategy. oceans and coastal zones should be a strategic priority for europe,which is why i fully support this report from the european parliament.
in writing. − consumer protection policy aims to promote the health, safety, economic and legal interests and the right to information of consumers. consumer protection is a horizontal and fundamental policy of the european union, focusing on ensuring healthy markets, enabling consumers to act with confidence and encouraging innovation and cross-border trade. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to strengthen the european consumer protection policy and to make it more effective and more tangible for the citizens. confident, well-informed and choice-based consumers are essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, which should aim to provide consumers with a wide choice of high-quality products and services at competitive prices, while offering them a high level of protection, thus playing an important role in making the eu globally competitive, dynamic and innovative.
in writing. − eu consumers have a key role to play in boosting growth, employment and competitiveness, and their interests are a key priority in shaping key policies such as health, business and industry, the environment, energy and transport, among others. in the energy sector, the internal market cannot function properly and competitively because of the existence of so-called 'energy islands', such as the baltic region, which are isolated from the rest of europe in terms of energy and dependent on a single external supplier. the existence of a european-wide electricity and gas pipeline network should be a priority, as europe is highly dependent on energy imports. the electricity market must also adopt a set of measures with a view to full opening up for the benefit of the european consumer. the conditions for real and fair competition and the creation of a genuine single market must be created. member states should adopt the necessary provisions to achieve very specific objectives, in particular the protection of vulnerable consumers, the protection of consumers' fundamental rights and economic and social cohesion.
in writing. − the promotion of consumer rights and welfare is a fundamental point of the european union. i support all efforts in this area to restore citizens' confidence in the markets. consumer protection is becoming equally or more important in this context of economic crisis which is increasing the pressure on the most vulnerable low-income groups of consumers. a coordinated approach is necessary to enable consumers to act with confidence in exercising their rights. in this connection, i would stress the need to: - on the one hand, promote consumer awareness and education policies (by the eu and member states) through campaigns, information points, increased resources of the european consumer centres; - on the other hand, the effective application of existing rules, the strengthening of market surveillance and enforcement mechanisms, pressure on member states to correctly transpose the acquis communautaire. however, this is the only way for consumers to make informed choices without being subject to all kinds of pressure from producers and to strengthen their confidence in the market, which leads to increased competition, improved quality of products and services and increased consumption (an important factor in economic recovery).
in writing. − the european union's consumer policy is a key pillar for the completion of the internal market. it should therefore enable european consumers and citizens to have access to high quality products and services at competitive prices, while enjoying a high level of protection of their rights. increased education and awareness of their rights and duties and a responsible attitude on the part of businesses will contribute to increasingly dynamic crossborder trade and, consequently, to a sound integration of the internal market, with an impact on european competitiveness. a fair balance must also be struck between the rights and duties of consumers and the impact of legislation adopted in this field on the rights and duties of businesses and service providers.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty mentions consumer protection as a horizontal and fundamental policy of the european union, stipulating that consumer protection requirements are to be taken into account. in this context, it is important to strengthen the european consumer protection policy and make it more effective and practical for citizens. it is necessary to respond to the expectations and problems of the european citizens. in this respect, market observation instruments such as the consumer markets review panel are advocated. a good consumer protection policy must ensure healthy markets, security and trust, where cross-border trade and innovation are encouraged. i am in favour of a transparent policy whereby the designation of origin is mandatory. the protection of consumers from unsafe imported products is important, which requires increased cooperation between market surveillance authorities and customs authorities. this safety of products circulating on the internal market requires joint efforts with the authorities of third countries and therefore the commission's initiative to intensify international cooperation and conclude formal agreements with the competent authorities of third countries, mainly china, the usa and japan, is supported.
in writing. − consumer protection has always been one of the eu's priorities and has been reinforced following the adoption of the lisbon treaty. consumers who are well informed of their rights and obligations contribute to a more transparent and competitive market. with the current economic crisis, it is crucial to protect the most vulnerable and low-income consumers. the increasing complexity of retail markets, particularly in services, makes it increasingly difficult for consumers to make the best choice. to assess markets effectively and adopt policies that produce the best possible outcomes for consumers, market observation tools are needed and the consumer markets scoreboard is therefore of great importance.
in writing. − solvit, which has been operating since 2002, is an online problem-solving network involving the member states of the european union, with the aim of providing a pragmatic response to the difficulties arising from the incorrect application of community law by public authorities. although the internal market is currently functioning relatively well, it is also not true that sometimes errors or problems of interpretation arise with regard to the rights of citizens and businesses who wish to take advantage of the advantages offered by the internal market. i voted in favour of this report because the solvit network has proved to be of the utmost importance in solving a wide variety of problems, from the citizen seeking another member state to study, work, join his partner, etc., to companies that may have to face administrative problems, vat refund problems, or other problems. the solvit network aims to provide citizens and businesses with a high level of service, with high standards of quality and performance.
in writing. - i welcome the busoi report on solvit. this informal network for solving internal market problems has been instrumental in providing free assistance to citizens and businesses alike in solving concrete problems in public administration. this importance is reflected in the increasing number of cases lodged over the past year. however, in view of the cross-cutting problems identified at national level, it is essential to consider a series of measures to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of these centres. i therefore believe that member states should step up their efforts to provide information to citizens and businesses about their rights in the internal market, by increasing financial and human resources and by training solvit staff in internal market rules. it is equally important that staff have a sound knowledge of english in addition to their mother tongue. i call on the member states and the commission to promote the closeness of citizens and businesses to the solvit network, with a view to effective application of the internal market rules.
in writing. the internal market is not and should not be a mere bureaucratic construction. to truly reap its full benefits, european businesses and citizens need to be able to exercise their rights in practice through fast, agile and efficient means. the solvit network is a key element in this respect. given the increasing number of cases that have been lodged in solvit centres over the last year, i consider it vital, in the interests of consumers, to carry out a set of reforms and improvements which the ep proposes, namely: - strengthening the european commission's control over the effective application of the internal market rules; - a clear increase in the resources allocated to solvit centres (recruitment of experts in the fields of the internal market, increase in funds for the national centres, specialised and current training of existing technicians, coordinated online access between local centres and commission services); - strong investment in the promotion and publicity of the solvit network by the member states and the european commission through all the media, promoting a high level of proximity to citizens and businesses. for all these reasons i support the busoi report on solvit.
in writing. - the solvit network was set up by the commission and the member states with the aim of solving, without recourse to the courts, the problems encountered by citizens and businesses as a result of the incorrect application of internal market legislation. this network has proven to be effective in solving problems, but is still little used by the general public. the commission therefore intends to promote the rapid and full implementation of the solvit network, increasing transparency to overcome obstacles to free movement and informing citizens about their rights to enhance the internal market. to this end, the commission calls on the member states to promote the solvit network to citizens and businesses, taking account of its potential and the added value it represents. given that many of the issues that can be dealt with by the solvit network are now settled by judicial means, increasing the time and money spent by citizens and businesses, and given that the solvit network can provide a faster and more effective alternative solution for dispute resolution, i believe that the full functioning of the solvit network is beneficial for the functioning of the internal market, as well as for the protection of the interests and rights of citizens and businesses.
in writing. − the solvit network was launched in july 2002 and was set up by the commission and the member states with the aim of solving problems encountered by citizens and businesses as a result of incorrect application of internal market legislation, thus enabling them to find a quick, free and effective solution without having to go to court. all eu member states, together with norway, iceland and liechtenstein, have established solvit centres at national level, in most cases integrated into their ministries of economy or foreign affairs. these centres cooperate directly through an electronic database in order to find quick and pragmatic solutions to problems raised by citizens and businesses. member states should step up their efforts to provide citizens and businesses with information on the rights they enjoy in the internal market, thus enabling them to exercise those rights in practice. the services provided by solvit should be communicated to citizens and businesses in the most effective way.
in writing. - 'effective problem solving in the internal market', the solvit network, has been a successful tool in solving internal market problems. the solvit network was set up in 2002 to respond to the problems that the incorrect application of european legislation to the internal market brings to citizens and businesses. solvit effectively and less bureaucratically replaces the courts, finding solutions within 10 weeks. however, the increasing flow of solvit cases that has been occurring has resulted in several deficiencies in its response. it is therefore very important that efforts are made to increase the human and financial resources and adequate training of solvit staff so that the network can be more effective in responding to the increasing number of cases that are referred to it.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 998/2003, which the commission proposes to amend, lays down harmonised rules for the non-commercial movement of pet animals within and entry into the community. it also provides for a transitional regime allowing some member states to impose more restrictive conditions for certain diseases such as rabies, equinococcus and tick-borne diseases. given the importance of the free movement of pet animals within the european union, i reiterate, however, my conviction that it is essential that they meet all the health conditions so that they do not pose risks to human or animal health.
in writing. - this report regulates the movement of domestic animals within the european area and how this movement should be processed in accordance with the objectives of preventing the spread of diseases, especially rabies. free movement is one of the fundamental pillars of the european single market. this is a matter of particular concern to our citizens in a europe without frontiers, where we have seen an increase in the movement of pets between member states. we all agree that it should be possible to travel with our pets, but we all also agree that this should be done in accordance with certain health criteria to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health. i therefore welcome the general passport system, which will harmonize the health measures and controls that facilitate the free movement of pets. the report also provides for a transitional arrangement until the end of 2011 so that some countries can prepare to put the necessary infrastructure in place.
in writing. - the animal health conditions under which non-commercial cross-border movements of domestic animals must be carried out are designed to ensure both a high degree of protection of human and animal health and the ease of movement of companion animals accompanied by their owners. the non-commercial movement of pet animals should therefore be facilitated, provided that they comply with the applicable rules and are accompanied during their travel within the community by a certificate of vaccination against rabies and an analysis of the immune reaction to that vaccine carried out by an authorised veterinarian.
in writing. the schengen agreement is a convention between european countries on a policy of free movement of persons within the schengen area. anyone in possession of a document proving that he is legally resident in a member state should be able to move freely within that area where there are no internal borders. however, not all countries fulfil their obligation to grant a residence permit to third-country nationals holding such a long-stay visa. it is therefore contradictory that a student who obtains a visa to take a course in portugal should not be able to go to belgium, for example, to collect information in a specialist library to write his thesis. in this respect, i voted in favour of this report, taking into account the need to facilitate the movement within the schengen area of third-country nationals legally resident in one of the member states on the basis of a long-stay visa of the type 'd' issued by that member state. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, on having once again succeeded in reaching an agreement at first reading, which makes it possible to resolve this situation before the visa code enters into force next april.
in writing. − the creation, with the schengen agreement, of a european area without border controls was an important step in building an open internal market with free movement of people and goods. the crucial issue underlying the agreement is therefore to allow the free movement of persons in an area where there are no internal borders. it therefore seems absurd that citizens from outside the community, but holding long-stay visas issued by one of the states party to the schengen agreement, should not be able to move freely within this area. the examples given by the rapporteur seem to us to be evidence of the absurdity of this system in practice. i therefore support the commission's proposal, as formulated by parliament, to equate long-term visas with residence permits, thus ensuring freedom of movement for their holders.
in writing. - first of all, i welcome the excellent quality of this report. under current community legislation, third-country nationals holding a long-stay visa (for stays of more than three months) are not allowed to travel to the other member states during their stay, nor to transit through the other member states when returning to their country of origin, as this is not provided for in the schengen convention. the proposed new rules provide that a long-stay visa has the same effects as a residence permit with regard to free movement within the schengen area without internal borders, i.e. a person holding a long-stay visa issued by one member state will be allowed to travel to the other member states for three months in a six-month period and under the same conditions as the holder of a residence permit. for that system to work, controls equivalent to those in place in other areas should be put in place to ensure good communication between member states and consistency between the issuing of long-stay visas, residence permits and entries in the schengen information system (sis).
in writing. - it is positive that a foreigner who holds a long-stay visa issued by a member state can travel to the other member states for at least three months in a six-month period and under the same conditions as the holder of a residence permit. as this is the main content of the regulation to which this report refers, we voted in favour. as is known, under current community legislation, third-country nationals holding long-stay visas - which may be, for example, students who wish to make a study trip to another member state, scientists, academics, certain family members of third-country nationals and eu citizens - are not allowed to travel to the other member states during their stay, nor to transit through the other member states when returning to their country of origin, as this is not provided for in the schengen convention. the new rules now adopted provide that a person holding a long-stay visa (a visa for a stay of more than three months, or a d visa) has the same rights as a holder of a residence permit as regards free movement within the schengen area.
in writing. − the previous legislation, which did not allow a third-country national with a long-stay visa issued by a member state to travel to other member states, did not meet the mobility needs of most of these citizens. we are talking about students, scientists, academics and others who, as a result of their professional and/or academic activities, find themselves in need of travelling between several member states and could not do so in the face of existing legislation. these amendments thus correct this anomalous situation without thereby failing to continue to safeguard all the safety rules for the movement of third country nationals within the community.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental principles of the european union and the creation of the schengen area is intended to contribute to the effective achievement of this objective. the epp group, to which i belong, has always defended the principle of free movement of persons, in the sense that the schengen acquis should include common rules and procedures on visas, residence permits and border controls. in this context, and taking into account that the free movement of third-country nationals residing in a member state on the basis of a long-stay visa type d to other schengen member states is sometimes hindered by delays in their conversion into a residence permit, i support the new measures adopted. the document states that the principle of equivalence between residence permits and short-stay visas will be extended to long-stay visas. for these reasons, and because the measures adopted not only do not call into question the conditions for issuing visas, particularly those relating to security issues, but also embody a natural and necessary development of the schengen acquis, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − effective competition in the supply of goods and services reduces prices, increases quality and allows for greater choice for consumers. it also allows technological innovation to progress. research in the energy sector and investment in infrastructure, particularly in the interconnection of gas and electricity networks, are essential to promote competition. security of supply and effective competition in the energy market depend on the interconnection and the proper functioning of energy infrastructures. strong competition in the telecommunications sector with measures favouring competition for preferential tariffs is also important, and for this it is important to make a relevant market analysis. i would also stress the importance of monitoring the competitive behaviour of the fuel markets in the union. i stress that support mechanisms such as state aid should not be used to protect national industries to the detriment of the internal market and european consumers and that these mechanisms should be used with a view to the recovery of a sustainable knowledge economy.
in writing. - greater competition means more choice for european citizens and a more competitive environment for businesses. as such, eu competition and consumer policies should not be dissociated. the commission's actions to ensure an effective competitive environment within the internal market are therefore essential to safeguarding those objectives, even if the fact that the commission has been given absolute powers may be called into question. in the crisis situation of recent months, the authorisation of state aid justified by the events has been essential for the recovery of the economy. the fight against cartels and the abuse of a dominant position by undertakings is also essential to ensure that the internal market is a place of fair competition in which the various economic operators enjoy good conditions for carrying on their activities.
in writing. - the economic crisis, the effects of which are still being felt, requires exceptional measures, such as state aid. however, they must not unduly distort competition and increase budget deficits and public debt. the allocation of this money should therefore be the subject of careful consideration. rapidly rising public debt levels will be a burden on future generations and an obstacle to economic recovery and growth. excessive debt and budget deficits not only jeopardise the stability of the euro, but also impose severe constraints on public spending in priority sectors such as education, health, innovation and the environment. in this context, a rigorous assessment of the rescue and recovery package and the effectiveness of the state aid measures is necessary. protectionism and the fragmentation of the single market must be avoided, as they weaken europe's position in the world economy. a well-functioning single market is the key to a healthy economy and, most certainly, to economic recovery. economic policies must gain more legitimacy through greater involvement of the european parliament, which is the ultimate decision-making body.
in writing. − competition policy and good competition rules have always been of crucial importance for the existence of a healthy coexistence between all economic players in the euro area. although the eu has been badly affected by the recent global economic crisis, the truth is that a strong currency, a strong single market, sound public finances and a good social protection system have all helped to sustain the effects of the crisis. however, the various state aids granted by member states without a common concern may lead to significant distortions of competition. it is therefore crucial that an assessment be made of all the measures taken by each state to combat the crisis so that in the future the eu is able to react jointly and harmoniously to avoid situations of protectionism and fragmentation of the single market. such situations only harm a europe which wants to be strong in the world economy.
in writing. − in 1997, the commission published the first internal market scoreboard, focusing on the transposition of internal market rules by member states, given that substantial delays prevented citizens and businesses from exploiting the full potential of the internal market. through this measurement and publication of the transposition performance, the evaluation panel has contributed to reducing the deficit in the transposition of directives by member states. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it imperative that the member states transpose legislation on the internal market into national law in a timely manner, since the internal market can only function properly if the community rules on its operation are correctly transposed and applied and enforced.
in writing. − although member states have achieved the best results in respecting the deadlines for transposing internal market rules into national law, the data from the latest internal market assessment panel do not seem satisfactory to me. the creation of a stable, innovative internal market which meets consumers' needs and in which businesses can create new jobs is not compatible with the systematic delays in transposing community legislation and the failure to apply directives. it is the people and businesses who suffer most from the delay in implementing internal market measures in terms of the costs of less choice, less competition and more closed markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules of the internal market are applied. it was the member states who set the deadlines for implementing these directives. the minimum required is that they respect the objectives they have set themselves. this is a fundamental requirement for a sound internal market in the context of economic crisis.
in writing. − following the most recent publication of the internal market assessment panel results (march 2010), the percentage of internal market directives not transposed into national law was found to be 0.7%, which is lower than the result presented in july 2009, which was, as stated by the rapporteur, 1.0%. the timely and proper transposition of community rules is essential for further integration of the internal market because of its direct impact on legal certainty and the confidence of european citizens. the member states should therefore adopt a responsible approach in the application of those rules so that in the future there is no lack of transposition, but rather greater legal certainty and citizens can benefit from a level playing field in the internal market.
in writing. − the internal market cannot function properly if the community rules on its functioning are not correctly transposed and applied and enforced. it is therefore imperative that member states transpose internal market legislation into national law in a timely manner. there are 22 directives whose transposition deadline has expired more than two years ago. in addition, 6% of the directives have not been transposed in all member states, which means that 100 internal market directives do not produce all the possible effects in the eu. member states and the commission must act jointly to deal with this situation. i agree with the view that the commission should provide on its website the directives which have not been implemented in each member state, so that this situation is public knowledge. it is found that the number of infringement cases remains too high, with some member states having cases well above the eu average of 47. the member states are also called upon to ensure the operability of the crossborder networks of electronic information systems set up by the commission.
in writing. - contrary to what is said in the report, it is now clear that the process of liberalising markets and privatising public services, which is still under way, has not brought any visible gains in terms of prices, quality of service or reduction of public expenditure. on the contrary, consumer and public service user associations report price increases, a deterioration in the quality of the service and an increase in the cost of providing it. liberalisation has contributed to the closure of jobs and the creation of private monopolies, which have undermined the rights of workers, users of public services and consumers, particularly in the postal, telecommunications, transport and electricity sectors. this in turn contributes to the worsening of the economic and social crisis. so to insist on such a policy is to insist on the continuing worsening of the socioeconomic situation of millions of people. it is to insist on the squandering of that public heritage which is public services and their handing over to private groups. it is to insist on precariousness, unemployment, poverty. it is to insist on widening the gap between the richest and the poorest. it's to insist on a more unjust society. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − a healthy internal market is crucial for healthy competition and economic development. but for this to be a reality, it is necessary that, without exception, community directives be adopted by all member states in the same way. the internal market assessment panel and the consumer panel have a crucial role to play in improving the functioning of the internal market. although we are on the right track, we are still far from achieving all the objectives set out in the report with regard to a more efficient internal market. the effort of all is therefore needed, including here the national parliaments, which have a very important and decisive role to play.
in writing. - due to a malfunction in the voting machine, the meaning of my vote was not recorded. i therefore declare that i have voted in favour of all the points put to the vote at this part-session.
mr president, mr president of the commission, women's rights and the right to live a life of dignity are fundamental human rights which the european union must promote. in view of the glaring inequalities which persist and even worsen, including the pay gap between men and women, poverty and precarious work, which affect women in particular, it is not enough to publish a more or less vague and imprecise charter of women's rights, which has not been preceded by any debate with women's organisations and the european parliament itself. i therefore ask whether the european commission is prepared to give priority to these issues of defending women's rights with concrete measures, particularly in the elaboration of the new strategy for equality which the european parliament itself is preparing - a report which i hope will be taken into account.
commissioner, the copenhagen conference has shown that we must prepare for the next cop at the internal and global level, at the technical level, but also at the political level. at the internal level, europe is tasked with implementing the energy and climate package and investing in clean technologies, scientific research and energy efficiency. leadership by example is a necessary condition, but it is not sufficient, as was demonstrated in copenhagen. it is therefore essential to develop and promote the diplomatic aspect and to use the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty to prepare the way for the next cop, with ambition, speaking with one voice and making strategic alliances with our potential allies in this field, such as the acp countries. it is also important to introduce the topic of climate change in all summits and high-level meetings. i would like to ask the commission and the commissioner what progress has been made in these political negotiations.
in writing. while it is true that the preservation of the earth's atmosphere should be a shared responsibility of the various countries, it is also clear that the influence that each of these countries has exerted on the atmosphere throughout history and that which they still exert today is very different, which means that this responsibility, for reasons of elementary justice, must be differentiated. on the other hand, the definition of each country's responsibility for the overall effort to reduce emissions will have to take into account its population base for the same reasons of fairness. china's per capita emissions are now four times lower than the us and about half the eu average. india has about one tenth of the eu average emissions and twenty times less than the us. at the moment, in india, there are about 500 million people (approximately the population of the eu) without access to electricity. that is why attempts to blame these countries for the failure of copenhagen are unjustified and unnecessary. the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in this area.
mr president, the real objective of the so-called railway package, launched with the announced - praiseworthy - objective of laying the foundations for modal transfer, interoperability, is now clear. the real intention, as we pointed out at the time, was to open up rail transport, particularly freight, to competition and private interests as a first step towards the complete liberalisation of the sector at european union level. as in other liberalisations, it starts by using what is wrong at a given moment, by dismissing the real causes of such situations, namely years of persistent policies of dismantling and atrophying the public sector, to justify liberalising measures and point to said competition, without understanding how or why, as the solution to all ills. experience, as we have heard here today, shows us the opposite: liberalization is the cause, not the solution, of the main problems in the sector, notably the quality and accessibility of services and workers' rights. public investment in the railway sector is undoubtedly strategic - for energy and environmental reasons - but not to be handed over to the profit-making logic of large private interests, which aim to dominate this key public sector in each country by liberalising it at the level of the european union's internal market.
mr president, commissioner, something emerges relatively clearly from this obscure process which has been conducted by the european commission. the intention to expand the scope and costs of intellectual property rights, providing even more profits for large corporations. to achieve this, basic democratic and transparent procedural rules are ignored, information is withheld and democratic scrutiny and controls are avoided. to achieve this goal, global access to essential goods such as safe medicines, including generics, is even limited if necessary, or the right to privacy and confidentiality of correspondence, to the protection of personal data, is violated. the omnipresence of the market, the defence of economic interests which are aimed at achieving objectives which are necessarily sectoral in nature, is incompatible with the defence and safeguarding of the common good. the results of this policy are clearly visible.
i am pleased to hear commissioner de gucht's assurance that the commission will soon send parliament the legislative initiative to revise the system of generalised preferences so that the legislative process can be completed in time to avoid the expiry of the current system of generalised preferences, which expires at the end of next year. that system must be renewed. firstly, because it is an instrument of development aid, giving countries access to the european market on preferential terms without any reciprocity. secondly, because this scheme is also an instrument for improving the human rights situation and good governance in those same countries, since its granting is subject to conditions to be fulfilled by those beneficiary countries. for these two reasons, the union must renew its use of this instrument, which puts trade at the service of development and human rights. however, the renewal should benefit from an evaluation of the results in the preceding period. the new regulation should also comply with the following requirements which have been drawn from practice up to now. firstly, to maintain the temporary nature of the granting of the generalized system of preferences so as to allow its withdrawal as soon as it is no longer necessary. secondly, to deepen and refine the differentiation and selectivity of the beneficiary countries, according to the level of development of each and their external competitiveness. thirdly, and finally, to improve the mechanisms for monitoring compliance with the conditions attached to the generalized system of preferences, especially with regard to respect for human rights. finally, commissioner, it was desirable that parliament's opinion be taken into account at the outset of the legislative procedure.
in writing. it is regrettable that the multilateral disarmament process has been halted and that for several years there has been no political will to resume it. the forthcoming 2010 review conference of the parties to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is therefore of particular importance. as stated in the motion for a resolution which we support, we are deeply concerned about the danger of a new nuclear arms race. the development, production and stockpiling of nuclear weapons must therefore be stopped immediately. the united states must stop developing new generations of nuclear weapons and instead sign and ratify the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. we also insist on a peaceful solution to the dispute over iran's nuclear programmes and call for the resumption of negotiations, reiterating our opposition to any military action or threat of use of force, and warning that any military action could lead to an even deeper crisis in the region.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the lehne report on the accounts of micro-enterprises because i support active measures to de-bureaucratize and support the small and mediumsized enterprises which, in portugal and in europe, are responsible for the greatest job creation. i would like to draw attention to the possible creation of inequalities in the internal market. it is a matter for the member states to decide whether or not to apply it, so we will have countries with different rules for identical companies. the way in which these rules are implemented should also ensure that there are no negative consequences for the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and to combat economic and financial crime (at national, european and international levels). the protection of partners and creditors should also be carefully considered.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to simplify the business environment and in particular the financial reporting requirements for micro-entities in order to enhance their competitiveness and realise their growth potential. in this context, i welcome the amendments in the report on reducing the administrative burden on micro-enterprises, as i consider it an important measure to stimulate the european economy and combat the crisis, since the activities of micro-enterprises are confined to a local or regional market where the preparation of annual accounts is a costly and complex measure. however, i would like to stress that the exemption of micro-enterprises from the obligation to provide annual accounts, which will be a decision for each member state to adopt, could have direct implications for the fight against tax fraud and evasion and the fight against economic and financial crime, as well as for the protection of shareholders and creditors. i therefore advocate that balanced solutions be found to ensure that this measure is applied properly, beyond the obligation expressed in the document to continue to keep accounts of their business operations and financial situation. i therefore vote in favour of this report, with some reservations.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the lehne report, which will certainly help to reduce the administrative burden on micro-enterprises. small businesses often complain of excessive regulation, burdens and red tape which often threaten their financial survival. micro-enterprises are right when they argue that they should not be subject to the same rules and regulations as larger enterprises. the rules proposed in this report are expected to lead to increased turnover and competitiveness for micro-enterprises. this report also gives member states flexibility to transpose the directive at the most appropriate time in order to avoid difficulties which may result from the reduction of regulation. however, micro-enterprises may continue, on a voluntary basis, to draw up annual accounts, submit them to audit and submit them to the national register. in any case, micro-enterprises will continue to keep their sales and transaction records for the purposes of their management and tax information. the commission expects a total saving of between eur 5.9 and 6.9 billion for the 5,941,844 micro-enterprises if all member states adopt this exemption. in portugal, 356 140 portuguese companies would be covered by this exemption if adopted by the portuguese government.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, as it advocates strengthening economic coordination between european countries, greater coherence between the stability and growth pact and other european strategies, the implementation of an ambitious social agenda to combat unemployment, greater flexibility in the retirement age and the promotion of smes. i would also stress that it is asking the commission to move forward with new incentive measures for member states that implement the eu 2020 strategy, possibly penalising those that do not, which is crucial for its success, as the problems we face are common and require a solution at european level. i also welcome the decision of the european council to make the strategy more realistic, giving it greater clarity, fewer objectives and quantifying them. finally, i cannot fail to emphasize the inclusion of agriculture in this strategy, because it was not included in the initial proposal, and this is undoubtedly a sector essential for europe to achieve its objectives, both from the economic, food and environmental point of view, and for a better quality of life in rural areas, generating employment.
in writing. − on 3 march, the european commission presented the 2020 strategy: 'a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'. it is a proposal based on five quantifiable objectives for the european union (eu) by 2020, which will frame the process and which should be translated into national objectives: employment, research and innovation, climate change and energy, education and the fight against poverty. it is a strategy that focuses on concrete, realistic and properly quantified objectives: raising the employment rate from 69% to at least 75%; increasing investment in research and development (r&d) to 3% of gdp; reducing poverty by 25%; reducing the school drop-out rate from the current 15% to 10%; and increasing the percentage of 30-year-olds with a tertiary education qualification from 31% to 40%. i voted in favour of the resolution on strategy 2020 because i believe that the objectives set out therein set the course for europe, that they provide a clear and objective response to the problems created by the economic and financial crisis in terms of unemployment, financial regulation and the fight against poverty, and that they constitute the benchmark which will enable us to assess the progress achieved.
in writing. - i welcome the recent discussions at the informal council on 11 february on the guidelines for a new strategy for europe, the europa 2020 strategy. i congratulate the commission on its initiative and call for greater collaboration with parliament on a matter of such importance for the future of europe. investment in knowledge and reforms that promote technological progress, innovation, education and training are essential to promote prosperity, growth and jobs in the medium to long term. i would also stress the importance of concrete ideas for this strategy, such as the digital agenda. harnessing this potential is essential if europe is to recover from the economic crisis in a sustainable way. cohesion policy is also key to supporting growth and employment. the europe 2020 strategy, in its regional dimension, should therefore consider this priority as one of the pillars for a richer, more prosperous and fairer society. i call for the need to develop financing and governance mechanisms with practical effects for the implementation of this strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the informal european council of 11 february 2010. to achieve a sustainable social market economy and a smarter and greener economy, europe needs to set priorities, agreed together. no member state can meet these challenges on its own. eu policy cannot be the sum of 27 national policies. when working together toward a common goal, the result will be greater than the sum of the parts. the eu can play a leading role in the world by demonstrating that economic dynamism can be combined with social and environmental concerns. the eu could create new jobs in areas such as renewable energy, sustainable transport and energy efficiency. this will require adequate financial resources to seize opportunities and exploit new sources of global competitiveness for the eu.
in writing. − the european commission has published strategy 2020, which replaces the unsuccessful lisbon strategy and presents important and ambitious challenges for europe. these challenges are mainly in five areas considered strategic by the commission: (i) employment; (ii) innovation and research; (iii) climate change and energy; (iv) education and (v) the fight against poverty. these are indeed key areas for europe to overcome the crisis and to reassert itself as a major player in the global market, with a high level of development and a competitive economy capable of generating wealth, jobs and innovation. the european union needs ambition to overcome the challenges posed by the crisis, without compromising the effort of budgetary consolidation required of the member states, given the fragility of their public accounts and excessive deficits. that is why i consider it essential to strengthen the objectives of strategy 2020.
in writing. − the principle of solidarity should be the basis of the eu 2020 strategy. solidarity between citizens, generations, regions and states. in this way we can combat poverty and ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion through sustainable economic growth. this principle of solidarity must be the guarantor of the european social model. we must think about restructuring social security systems and guaranteeing minimum social rights at european level to facilitate the free movement of workers, managers, entrepreneurs, researchers, students and pensioners. efficient use of resources is a requirement of this principle and follows from the need for sustainability. employment creation must be the result of this strategy. we cannot accept that the eu has some 23 million unemployed men and women. to this end, support for entrepreneurship and bureaucratic and tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises are essential. this cannot mean that industry or agriculture is forgotten. we have to re-industrialize europe. sustainable agriculture, with quality products, should be another objective. to do this, we need to strengthen the sustainable development of our primary sector and take the lead in scientific research, knowledge and innovation.
in writing. − strategy 2020, which is intended to continue the lisbon strategy, should begin by taking due account of the implementation of its predecessor. if it did, it would find in the guidelines it has covered - i.e. the liberalisation of important economic sectors and the deregulation and flexibilization of labour laws - the causes of their practical results: the growth of unemployment, precariousness, poverty and social exclusion; economic stagnation and recession. the commission and parliament now intend to follow the same lines. the path we are on is clear and the social and environmental rhetoric that is being used is not enough to disguise it: the emphasis on the single market, the continuation of liberalization, the commodification of increasing aspects of social life, precarious employment, structural unemployment. the consensus between the right and the social democrats on these lines is revealing. after all, they have been, collectively, its faithful protagonists in recent years. this strategy is, in fact, nothing more than the response of these two currents of the same system to its structural crisis. if it is pursued, it will itself be the seed of new and deeper crises. if it is continued, it will inevitably face the resistance and struggle of the workers and the peoples.
in writing. - we regret that they have rejected our motion for a resolution in which we advocated not only a broad consultation on the proposals now being put forward by the european commission and a full assessment of the results of the lisbon strategy in order to draw conclusions for a new strategy 2020, but also a set of new proposals, giving priority to increasing output and creating jobs with rights, tackling unemployment and poverty, and ensuring equality in social progress. this implied a new macroeconomic framework favouring sustainable development, the strengthening of domestic demand, respectful of the environment, based on wage growth, full employment with rights and economic and social cohesion. we voted against the joint resolution which was adopted because it does not go to the heart of the problem, does not propose alternative measures to the stability pact, and does not propose an end to the liberalizations or the flexibility of employment which have led to the increase in precarious and low-paid work. they therefore accept that the european commission is continuing to insist on more of the same, which has already led to the unemployment of over 23 million people and over 85 million people in poverty.
in writing. − strategy 2020 is the eu's last chance to assert itself as the world's leading economic power, after the failure of the lisbon strategy. in this context of global economic crisis, strategy 2020 must be the model that all member states must follow to start a new phase, with new paradigms that lead to sustainable development based on good practices. after the loss of many millions of jobs across the eu, the fight against unemployment has to be the eu's 'keystone'. we must be able to create jobs and to make our workforce more skilled and better trained. this will only be possible with the unambiguous support of smes, which are responsible for creating the largest number of jobs. but for strategy 2020 to be a success, we cannot make the same mistakes that were made with the lisbon strategy, namely the lack of commitment and accountability of member states.
in writing. − strategy 2020 aims to outline the future roadmap for achieving economic growth and promoting employment in the european union. its approach should be objective, with references to a sustainable social market economy, sustainable knowledge-based knowledge and the role of smes in promoting employment. a strong, modern and flexible cohesion policy must be a central element of this strategy. enshrined in the new lisbon treaty, cohesion policy, through its horizontal approach, plays an essential role in responding to the union's new challenges. the objective of european territorial cohesion is of fundamental importance in this context. the priorities of european cohesion must not only aim at promoting competitiveness at european level through the efficient allocation of funds, but also at supporting disadvantaged regions in order to overcome their social and economic difficulties and to reduce existing disparities. the active role of the european regions in promoting this strategy is also worth noting. the importance of multi-level governance is worth highlighting. a concerted sharing of the objectives, tasks and responsibilities of the 2020 strategy between the european union, the member states and local and regional authorities is desirable. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - those who have been following the israeli-palestinian conflict for many years, as i have, cannot help but conclude with sadness that many of the sincere efforts for a lasting peace are still not enough to persuade and motivate those who have chosen violence to abandon it for good. hamas's electoral victory and the partition of the palestinian territory into two, each under its authority, have greatly worsened an already bleak scenario. until hamas accepts the legitimate existence of the state of israel, the dialogue will be nothing more than a show. israel, for its part, will have to be careful about the appropriateness and proportionality of its positions, lest it jeopardize its international legitimacy. like yitzhak rabin, i too believe that a diplomatic peace is not yet a true peace, but it is an essential step towards it. we must work to that end and remove the obstacles to the steps towards true peace. judge goldstone's report points to choices made by both sides in this case: serious failures and crimes that must be investigated, tried and punished.
in writing. − it should be noted that the armed conflict in gaza, which began on 27 december 2008 and ended on 18 january 2009, resulted in the deaths of more than 1 400 palestinians and 13 israelis. in addition to the loss of human life, it is noted that much of the civilian infrastructure has been destroyed. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the member states should work towards a common eu position on the follow-up to the report of the fact-finding mission on the conflict in gaza and southern israel. i would stress that respect for international human rights law and international humanitarian law is an essential condition for achieving a just and lasting peace in the middle east. i support the call for the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the member states to monitor the implementation of the recommendations contained in the goldstone report by consulting eu external missions and ngos working in this field.
in writing. - the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the war in gaza, recognising israel's violations of international law, was a positive step. this is proof of the impact of the goldstone report on the middle east peace process, as the european parliament has recognised israel's continued violations of international law. the truth is that the goldstone report contains clear evidence of the violations of international humanitarian rights committed by israeli forces in the palestinian territories throughout their military operations in 2008. we therefore want the conclusions of this report to be adopted immediately and its recommendations to be put into practice. at the same time, we urge the european union's leaders not to strengthen the eu-israel association agreement until the violations of international law and fundamental human rights that israel continues to commit in the occupied palestinian territories are brought to an end.
in writing. - the eu must have a fundamental concern in resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict, which, in addition to the victims it causes, has for decades been a source of great instability in the region and the world. however, i believe that there are differences between the actions of israel, as a democratic and sovereign state which shares and promotes the values that are the benchmarks of western societies, and radical movements such as hamas, which in most cases refuses to recognize the very existence of the state of israel and thus acts as an obstacle to a good resolution of the conflict. this does not prevent us from condemning, in all circumstances, the acts of violence on both sides of the conflict, which are shocking the world and can only motivate us and make us more and more committed to seeking platforms for understanding.
in writing. - i reminded the house not long ago that elections in belarus are not free, there is no freedom of expression, association or demonstration, and that the repressive activities carried out by the authorities are increasing. in addition, political prisoners have not yet been released, the death penalty has not been abolished, and the separation of powers, in particular the independence of the judiciary and respect for human rights, are not guaranteed. the recent use of police forces against upb militants and the deprivation of their rights are two more episodes that contribute to reinforcing european distrust of the belarusian dictatorship and call on all european democrats, in particular the european institutions and the governments of the member states, to be vigilant and to react firmly and coordinatedly against the authorities in minsk, who remain faithful to the worst legacy of communism. the european union cannot be a partner of belarus which does not respect its own citizens or international law. as the saying goes in my country: "once you were only badly accompanied!"
in writing. - as long as free elections are not held, the european union must not recognise the legitimacy of the belarusian parliament. the belarusian authorities are therefore called upon to carry out a thorough reform of the country's electoral legislation in line with osce/odihr recommendations. the actions of the belarusian authorities against members of the organisation representing the polish national minority are absolutely reprehensible, as are the politically biased trials and the apparent dependence of the judiciary on the executive. the eu cannot agree with the decision of the belarusian authorities to restrict access to the internet and the failure to guarantee freedom of the press, freedom of association and assembly, and freedom of worship for churches other than the belarusian orthodox church, alongside other political rights and freedoms. i believe that the level of community cooperation with the belarusian authorities should be directly proportional to the level of respect for human rights in that country. i also share the concern about the lax and belated statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the repression of the polish national minority.
in writing. - since the end of the cold war, belarus' relations with the west have reached a new level of understanding, and the european union has been developing a positive dialogue to encourage belarus to make progress on democracy and human rights. however, the eu cannot accept actions which conflict with international principles and standards on the rights of national minorities. the eu cannot make any comparative judgments on human rights.
in writing. the financial sector must take its share of responsibility for the economic crisis which still plagues us. the real economy, taxpayers, consumers, public services and society in general have so far borne a substantial share of the costs and consequences of the financial crisis. several member states have called for the adoption of a financial transaction tax. the policy and regulatory environment in this area is different today, with new regulatory initiatives such as the fight against tax havens, the removal of legal loopholes in management accounts, requirements for exchange transactions and the use of transaction repositories for the registration of derivative instruments. the european union should adopt a common position in the international framework of the g20 meetings. to this end, the commission should assess the impact of a global financial transaction tax before the next g20 summit. this assessment shall, in particular, assess the effects of the introduction of a financial transaction tax only in the european union as opposed to its introduction worldwide. the costs should be quantified and it should be determined whether this tax contributes to the stabilisation of financial markets.
in writing. − several statements in the recitals of the resolution now adopted by the majority of the european parliament are positive, in particular when it states that the financial sector should bear a fair share of the burden of economic recovery and development, given that so far it has been the real economy, taxpayers, consumers, public services and society in general that have borne a substantial share of the costs and consequences of the financial crisis. but then he almost regrets his support for the possible application of a financial transaction tax, by raising many conditions for its application. that is why we abstained. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we must move decisively and not continue in these murky waters which only serve financial speculators and big business.
in writing. - the cds is, as a rule, contrary to the creation of european taxes. in addition, tax matters are important instruments at the service of the states, which can use them, especially in difficult times, as the present crisis is an example. finally, the different tax options, whether in the form of taxes or charges, applied in the various member states would necessarily give the rate in question a more or less punitive character, allowing for injustices on a european scale which would make no sense.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic money, the exchange of information and the exchange of information on the use of electronic money. the sepa is still operating at a deficit and does not correspond to the real needs of users. the european commission should set an appropriate and binding deadline for the use of sepa instruments, after which all payments in euro should be made using the rules of the sepa system. it is equally important to ensure that the adoption of this system does not entail additional costs for the european citizen.
in writing. − the creation of the single euro payments area (sepa) is key to further integrating the market for financial payment services, will increase competition by treating crossborder and national payments in euro equally, and can have a direct positive impact on the lives of eu citizens. as such, there appears to be an urgent need for the migration of sepa services by national public administrations and the necessary adaptation of the rules governing this initiative so that there is in fact a simplification of the current context in financial payment services and a reduction of costs for the benefit of consumers.
in writing. − the single euro payments area (sepa) will become an integrated market for payment services, subject to effective competition and in which there is no distinction between cross-border and national payments denominated in euro. a legally binding deadline should have been set for completing the migration to sepa instruments. this migration by public administrations is below expectations. it is therefore important that all stakeholders - legislators, the banking sector and payment service users - are involved in the sepa. the continuity of legal validity of existing direct debit authorisations should be ensured in all member states, as the obligation to sign new authorisations when switching from national direct debit schemes to the sepa direct debit scheme would be very burdensome. therefore, the commission should set a clear, appropriate and binding deadline for the migration to sepa instruments, which should not be later than 31 december 2012, after which all payments denominated in euro should be made using sepa standards. the commission should assist the public administration in the migration process by developing integrated and synchronised national migration plans.
in writing. − the single euro payments area (sepa) must rapidly become an integrated market for payment services. however, this is far from being achieved. and although there are directives stipulating the start of the sepa card framework and the sepa direct debit system, the truth is that they are not yet operational. it is therefore necessary to speed up all the obstacles to the implementation of the sepa system so that it can become fully operational as soon as possible. it is important that the transitional period does not exceed 21 october 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on transparency and the current state of the acta negotiations because i am in favour of a transparent process in the conduct of the negotiations. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament will have to give its consent to the text of the acta agreement before its entry into force in the european union. the ep's contribution is essential to ensure that measures to enforce intellectual property rights do not impede innovation, competition, the protection of personal data and the free flow of information.
in writing. - counterfeiting is one of the main scourges of the global economy and, despite efforts to combat it, the obvious inability of individual states to carry out this fight to a successful conclusion is evident. the risks to the health and safety of consumers which the purchase of certain products may entail are now clear. from a commercial and industrial point of view, this parallel industry, which illegitimately feeds on the creativity and notoriety of others, weakens the value of brands and makes their distinctive vocation less effective. the establishment of an open, free and fair market is important, but it will only prevail if counterfeiting is condemned and combated by the major producers. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement may be a path worth taking, but to do so it must first be known and discussed in a transparent way, unlike what has been happening so far.
in writing. − in 2008, the european union and other oecd countries started negotiations on a new plurilateral agreement to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) and to combat counterfeiting and piracy (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement - acta), and jointly decided to adopt a confidentiality clause. any agreement on acta concluded by the european union should respect the legal obligations imposed on the eu in the field of privacy and data protection legislation as defined in directive 95/46/ec, directive 2002/58/ec and the case law of the european court of human rights and the court of justice of the european union (cjeu), following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament will have to give its consent to the text of the acta agreement before its entry into force in the european union. the commission has also undertaken to provide the european parliament with prompt and complete information at all stages of the negotiation of international agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the commission should submit proposals before the next round of negotiations.
in writing. - parliament's general condemnation of the commission's failure to provide information on the ongoing negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) and the limitations it sought to impose on its democratic scrutiny and control was clear. we therefore consider it important that the resolution should defend the commission's 'legal obligation' 'to inform parliament immediately and fully at all stages of the negotiation process of international agreements'. we are calling for democratic and transparent procedures in the conduct of the negotiations and for a public debate on their content, which we consider to be a positive development. we also stress the need to respect 'fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and the right to privacy, while fully respecting subsidiarity' and the protection of personal data. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. - the lack of transparency in the negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) is contrary to the spirit of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is essential that the council and the commission make available immediately all the documentation that has been the subject of negotiations. failure by the commission and the council to fulfil this basic duty could lead the european parliament to use legal mechanisms to access these elements, which would not in any way give the european institutions involved any credit.
in writing. the european union is the largest donor of humanitarian aid and development support. we know that every year millions are given by the european union and the member states under cooperation and development programmes and that this aid is needed and in many cases will make a difference. it is, however, my conviction as a market economy advocate that development aid can (and should) be provided through trade policies which are beneficial to developing countries. it is in this context, in my view, that the system of generalised preferences (gsp) is appropriate, which allows developed countries to offer non-reciprocal preferential treatment to products from developing countries.
in writing. - it is not safe to say, as the resolution does, that the current gsp is an instrument to help developing countries. this instrument has had the effect of increasing the economic dependence of these countries on export production to the detriment of their internal market. to a large extent, it is the large transnational corporations, some of them from eu countries, who benefit from this system, and not the people of developing countries. thus, some of the purported purposes of the gsp are contradictory to its practical results. on the other hand, in the context of growing pressure for the liberalization of international trade, it is clear that the eu is using the end of this regulation as a form of blackmail for the acceptance of the so-called free trade agreements, through unacceptable diplomatic and economic pressure on these countries. for the gsp to become a development aid instrument, it would require, as we propose, its extension and renegotiation, together with other development support policies, giving shape to effective solidarity, combating economic dependence and the exploitation of peoples and their natural resources by the eu economic groups.
in writing. - what the european community has been doing since 1971 with regard to developing countries in the area of trade preferences under the generalised system of preferences is a way of making world trade fairer and at the same time helping these countries to grow and develop economically. this regulation expires in 2011, and we need to start working immediately on a new instrument that maintains and, if possible, further enhances the benefits that this system has provided to developing states, which is even more important in this context of the international crisis. it is, however, crucial that the new list of countries benefiting from this system reflects their economic situation in a very realistic way to avoid injustices.
in writing. - like many (if not all) of the member states, the european union is faced with a budget far below its ambitions and far below what it could achieve. the list of multiple values and european expectations in this area reinforces the observation of this asymmetry. the fact that politics is, par excellence, an activity in which we have to foresee and provide becomes particularly relevant when what is at stake are aspects as essential to our common life as foreign and security policy. the treaty of lisbon and the consequent creation of the post of high representative reflect the conviction of the member states that there is a real need for readiness, coordination and convergence in european action in the fields of the cfsp. only practice will tell whether the provisions of the treaty are sufficient and whether what has been written in the treaty will be successful. i hope that the union will be able to respond positively to this important challenge.
in writing. − the report on the implementation of the european security strategy is an annual document of the european parliament which takes stock of european security and defence policy and makes proposals to improve the efficiency and visibility of this policy. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu's external action takes on a new dimension and importance. the european parliament has a key role to play in this respect as the guarantor of the democratic legitimacy of external action. the creation of a european action service will provide a body and a diplomatic apparatus of the union, which until now could only be provided by national representation. however, to achieve the external representation targets, it is crucial that the eu has the necessary budgetary resources.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has brought new responsibilities to the ep with regard to the common foreign and security policy and we are ready to take on these responsibilities and to contribute to the choice of policies, but also of the faces that will represent them around the world, scrutinizing the choices of appointees to the european external action service (eeas), including here, too, the eu special representatives. the eu must demonstrate to the international community that it has a foreign policy which is increasingly representative, coherent, systematic and effective. the eu must increasingly be the main driver in building world peace.
in writing. - the european union has been described on several occasions as an economic giant and a political dwarf, meaning that it does not have the means to pursue some of its objectives, particularly in its external action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i doubt that this situation is likely to change any time soon. on the contrary, i think it is to be expected, given the number of states that make up the union, their histories and their particular interests. the question of common defence, which goes to the heart of sovereign powers, has always been the subject of suspicion on the part of the european countries and still today deserves particular caution, which is fully justified. this should not dissuade us from seeking closer cooperation and coordination to improve our common security and defence. despite its soft power nature, the european union should consider taking on the role of a true second pillar of an atlantic alliance which cannot continue to demand all the sacrifices of the united states of america.
in writing. - this report, which has brought together the conservative right and social democracy, is a dangerous symptom of what we have long been denouncing about the lisbon treaty: its contribution to the deepening of neoliberalism, based on federalism and the militarisation of the european union as the european pillar of nato. following the lead of the major powers, the eu seeks to resolve its own contradictions and to reposition itself in the face of a process of international power-sharing, a competitive view among powers over natural resources and markets, and a greater assertion of the european union as an economic, political and military bloc with ambitions for global interventionism. the majority of the ep here prescribes the recipe it has long advocated: - the militarization of international relations and internal security as a result of the so-called fight against terrorism; - the strengthening of budgets in these areas and the creation of new military capabilities that will contribute to the relaunch of the arms race; - the adaptation to the us and nato concepts of preventive wars and the extension of their intervention on a world scale. the result of these developments may be more war, exploitation and poverty as responses to the crisis that capitalism has plunged the world into. the road to peace requires a break with these policies.
in writing. − the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common defence and security policy (cfsp) are two key pillars for the eu to become the leading actor in the international community in tackling the challenges and threats identified in the european security strategy (ess). although the eu considers the un security council to be primarily responsible for the maintenance and preservation of peace and security in the world, the eu must have effective policies common to all member states in order to be able to respond effectively to global challenges and threats.
in writing. - the principles which guided the signing of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and which date back to the cold war period are still relevant today and even more urgent. the collapse of the soviet bloc has led to the proliferation of nuclear material by several states, and the end of unified control over its use and maintenance raises fears of its irresponsible use or even its deterioration with unforeseeable consequences for the health and safety of the region. the growing number of members of the "nuclear club", the threat of terrorism, and the relative ease with which weapons of mass destruction are now being built all contribute to the climate of unrest in which we live today. the european union must be able to take a common and coherent position on these issues with a view to a safer and increasingly weapons-free world.
in writing. − changes in the international order provide new opportunities for the non-proliferation issue. at the beginning of his term, president obama stated his ambition for a world without nuclear weapons and his commitment to actively seek ratification of the complete ban on nuclear testing by the united states. the union must rise to the challenges of nuclear non-proliferation, especially in the face of iran and north korea, which remain the main threats to international security. as regards the reduction of nuclear arsenals, the priority is to continue to reduce the two main arsenals, that is to say, those of russia and the united states, which possess 95% of all nuclear weapons in the world. the european parliament expects the european union to adopt a common and ambitious position at the forthcoming conference on the review of the non-proliferation treaty.
in writing. - international nuclear disarmament is of vital importance. hence the need to defend and strengthen the npt and its ratification by all states. in the present international context, the danger of a new nuclear arms race is a matter of great concern. in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the npt, disarmament and an end to the development, production and stockpiling of new nuclear weapons are necessary. the dispute over iran's nuclear programmes requires a peaceful solution on the basis of negotiations which must be resumed. any military action, or threat of use of force, will be counterproductive and could have potentially dangerous consequences in the region. in this connection, we cannot but express our clear opposition to formulations which could in any way constitute an open door to justifying military interventions, as is the case in recital g of the joint resolution adopted.
in writing. - the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a serious threat to humanity, to international peace and security. extreme, unlimited and often fundamentalist terrorism leads the world to fear and to seek to prevent groups or states with unscrupulous leaders from acquiring this technological capacity. it is therefore important that the states which possess such weapons show, in a progressive manner, that they intend to reduce their arsenals by setting a good example. the next summit, scheduled for april this year, can make a very important contribution in this area, and we hope that there will be greater rigour and control over the unauthorized trade in nuclear materials. the us and china are also expected to play an important role in the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula. it is also important that all the states should not be excluded from the npt, because this is a matter which concerns all of them, not just a few.
mr president, this debate is once again demonstrating the double standards of the majority in the european parliament, the same majority which refused to condemn the military coup in honduras, ignoring that it led to the arrest and death of countless people, and which is now preparing to negotiate association agreements with a government that emerged from elections prepared by the coup plotters. of course, we all deplore the death of cuban citizen zapata tamaya in a cuban hospital after a hunger strike, but we cannot but deplore the terms of this debate and its unacceptable position against cuba, forgetting the serious consequences of the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the united states on cuba and the detention in american prisons of five cuban citizens who only wanted to defend their country. we cannot continue with an unacceptable common position which prevents the european union from maintaining comprehensive and open relations with the cuban government on the basis of bilateral interests. it is time to withdraw the common position to begin the normalisation of relations between the european union and cuba. we expect that from the spanish presidency.
madam president, we regret the death of orlando zapata, we regret that we have carried out his protest to its ultimate consequences, whatever the reasons behind it. but we cannot accept that, on the pretext of this sad and regrettable event, unacceptable political and ideological campaigns against cuba and its people are being renewed. whatever one may think of the cuban people's choices, those choices must be respected, their sovereign right to decide their own destiny and the political organization of their state must be respected. we therefore condemn any form of interference or attack, including the criminal blockade which has been imposed on it for almost half a century. we therefore also believe that the european union's logical position and the way forward should be to fully normalize relations with cuba, with the withdrawal of the common position against cuba, which represents an unacceptable discrimination against cuba and its people. above all, we do not accept the immense hypocrisy that runs through many of the seats in this parliament and we strongly condemn the double standards of the european union.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, commissioner, council, we are talking here about reinventing the energy system for europe through investment in low-carbon technologies. i think it's one of the very important challenges - as it's referred to, by the way, in the communication that's done. and it is one of the challenges that we have to face in a central way, but there is no clarification here, and that is why it is important to ask these questions and to ask for clarification. it seems that not only is there a lack of clarity on financing, but also a lack of political clarity. they talk about energy efficiency, carbon capture, nuclear, biofuels, solar energy, and they even talk about energy efficiency as the cheapest way to reduce emissions. i am surprised that there are other, much cheaper ways of reducing carbon emissions that are not even mentioned in this communication, such as, for example, reducing energy consumption, microgeneration, distribution and the different forms of distribution and different projects, which do not have to go through large structures, and access to energy. i think we would certainly be contributing to more financial clarification to make the plan cheaper. so, within this political clarification and within this financial clarification, there is still the matter of what i think is an absolutely important point, which is the emphasis that is constantly placed on public-private partnerships, as if they were the solution to everything. when you ask where the money comes from, the commission tells us that it comes from where it is. i confess i am no more enlightened by being told that the money will come from where it is, without being told exactly where it is. and so, with this bet on public-private partnerships that is systematically made when we talk about low-carbon technologies, we can safely be certain of one thing: the problem is, because you don't know where the money is coming from, and you know that it's a public-private partnership, you know in advance who's going to pay. it is the taxpayers who will pay in the beginning, it is the consumers who will also pay in the end. and we know that the ones who pay the least are, at the beginning, the institutions and the private organizations - who are the ones who make the investment, are paid for it, but in the end they monopolize the profits. without this clarification, it seems to me that we are once again systematically passing on to future generations the bill for the change in the european energy model.
research and technology play a key role in development in the low-carbon society. it is essential to bet on a radical change in society, based on the sustainability of cities, decentralized energy production and the competitiveness of industry. it is a policy that is essential for a prosperous, sustainable society, one that is prepared for the challenges of climate change, security of supply and globalisation, and a world leader in clean technologies. the set plan aims to contribute to this very objective. i welcome the basic guidelines that the communication presents on how to organise the logic of intervention between the public and private sectors, between community, national and regional funding. however, it is essential to increase public funding for scientific research in the area of clean technologies. europe must also create the conditions for more private investment in this area. it is urgent to move from words to deeds. the next eu financial perspective and the 8th framework programme for research and technological development will have to prioritise energy security, the fight against climate change and the environment. only in this way will we be able to maintain the competitiveness of our industry, promote economic growth and create jobs.
madam president, commissioner, the debate on the transition to a low-carbon economy should not make us forget this fact. it is unlikely that it will be achieved without a shock, without facing within a few years the effects of the shortage and progressive depletion of the primary source of energy on which we depend: fossil fuels. fuels which are also the raw material of many very important industries which today depend on them, such as the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. the remaining oil reserves on a world scale, as a human imperative, should be managed with great wisdom, which means, first of all, with great parsimony. it is in this context that the adoption of the so-called exhaustion protocol, presented in uppsala in 2002 and in lisbon in 2005 by a group of scientists and experts from several countries that are part of the association for the study of peak oil, would be of the utmost importance to adopt a plan aimed at a good and fair management of these resources, the mitigation of their shortage and the controlled transition to other primary energy sources.
in writing. while i recognise that this commission communication aims to accelerate the development of new technologies with higher low-carbon potential through greater energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, i regret, however, that european regions do not yet have a well-defined role within this strategy. it is necessary to ensure that regional authorities are adequately funded, for example by providing funding for the testing phase of pilot projects or for investments in the research and testing phases of renewable energy projects. i think it is important that geothermal energy, for example, be included, a renewable energy with great potential for expansion in volcanic regions, and this is particularly relevant for remote and island regions of the union, and for which no targets are set to be achieved. in this context, public and private investment has to increase through the development of energy technologies in order to achieve the desired goals of a low-carbon economy and also to help overcome the market failures referred to in the energy and climate package.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i would like to express our deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the severe weather which has struck portugal, madeira, france and spain. last week a delegation from my group went to madeira, visited the areas most affected by the disaster and met with regional and local authorities and associations of businessmen, industrialists, traders and farmers. from what we see and hear, we retain impressive images and messages. we heard of the deaths of entire families inside their own homes, we heard shocking testimonies, people swept away by the force of the water and never found again. houses that slid whole from side to side, cars with people in them that were swept off the streets into the sea. but also impressive is the courage of the madeiran people to overcome adversity. i will never forget the images of determination of those who lost their businesses, their homes, their possessions, but who did not give up. instead, they threw themselves into work, willing to start over from scratch. in a few days, tons upon tons of rocks, earth and other debris were removed from the city center of funchal. national, regional and local authorities have joined forces to bring life back to normal on the island. so it's important that people know that tourists can come back to madeira. the natural beauties and the friendliness of the people await us. the people of madeira are now also looking to the european institutions for solidarity in order to rebuild the destroyed roads, bridges and public buildings. the traders, industrialists and farmers also need our support to rebuild their lives and contribute to the economic development of the region. i am glad, commissioner, to hear that the commission is determined, together with parliament and the council, to unblock the cohesion fund - the new proposal which has already been adopted by parliament - so that the new rules can be applied because they are better suited to the present needs of the people. and it is also necessary, as you know, commissioner, that the other structural funds can be reprogrammed and reallocated to the most affected areas, because special situations also require special solutions.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. we welcome the european union's words of solidarity with the regions and people affected. it is now time to put this solidarity into practice by rapidly mobilizing the means and resources needed to help repair the damage caused by the weather. in recent years, member states have been hit by a considerable number of disasters, as evidenced by the 62 requests for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, made by a total of 21 countries, during the first six years of the instrument's existence alone. the damage caused by disasters is hard to quantify, especially in terms of loss of human life. in any case, the economic and social costs are almost always very significant. it is in this context that prevention should acquire an increasing social relevance and become an increasingly important stage in the disaster management cycle. cooperation and solidarity in this field should be developed in the european union. the commission is also proposing to set up a financial framework for prevention, which will support the implementation by the member states of measures to protect people, the environment and the economy. priority support should be given to, inter alia, actions such as the correction of risk inducing situations, the protection of areas most vulnerable to risk, the strengthening of early warning systems in the member states and the establishment and strengthening of existing links between the different early warning systems. as has already been said, the balanced use of land and economic and social development in balance with nature, as well as the strengthening of cohesion in the european union, are also fundamental elements for disaster prevention.
mr president, i would first of all like to express my deepest condolences to all the families of the victims of the deaths caused by hurricane xynthia, especially in france and spain. only a week after what happened in madeira, no one would have imagined that this storm would hit the coasts of france, spain, and especially the canary islands with such violence. last saturday i had the opportunity to accompany commissioner hahn, who was in madeira to visit the worst affected areas and thus witnessed the extent of the destruction on the spot. tomorrow, the president of the european commission, mr barroso, will do the same. the fact that they do, and see with their own eyes the extent of the destruction, makes them privileged witnesses of what happened and focuses people's attention on what is most important now, which is the urgency of the aid. it is essential that this parliament can work hard to review the solidarity fund regime quickly, simplifying it and making aid faster so that we can get to the people who cannot be asked to wait any longer faster.
in writing. other in recent weeks, two natural disasters of tragic proportions have struck europe and its member states, leaving a trail of destruction and death, and causing tens of thousands of euros in damage. we shall not forget the dramatic images that reached us from the island of madeira at the end of february, which i watched with particular sadness, because it was a tragedy that struck an island that i know well, but also the dramatic account of the passage of the storm xynthia through various places in europe. on this occasion, in addition to expressing my sincere sympathy to all those affected by these tragedies, i urge the commission to act swiftly in support of the regions most affected. not only by mobilising the european union solidarity fund as quickly and flexibly as possible and in the largest possible amount, but also by using all the instruments and mechanisms available under the cohesion funds to help the affected regions to overcome the serious tragedy that has befallen them. i also take this opportunity to express my solidarity with all the efforts made by the local authorities in madeira and by the people of madeira.
in writing. in addition to the many expressions of grief for the victims of the storm that hit the island of madeira on 20 february, and of solidarity with all those who are grieving the loss of their family and friends and the loss of their property, i would also like to stress the continuing need to strengthen the european union's capacity to provide aid to the people affected by the storms. these populations, losing personal assets such as their housing and livelihoods such as employment spaces, may fall into a situation of misery. in these cases, social justice is only achieved through solidarity, without forgetting that the whole of society also benefits from the good living conditions of each of its citizens. it is therefore not too much to insist on the need to extend and make more flexible the european parliament's solidarity fund. in this context, i would like to express my full support for the resolution on wood adopted by the european parliament today.
in writing. after the earthquake in haiti, we are again faced with a catastrophe of terrible proportions, with 800 dead and damage whose reconstruction amounts to a sum of approximately 15% of chile's gdp. according to president bachelet, 80% of the population has been affected and the country's infrastructure has been seriously damaged. and the eu has once again assumed its responsibilities as a privileged partner of that country, of which it is the first trading partner and the first market for chilean exports. the eu's response was to make €3 million immediately available for emergency aid, and european civil protection experts are on the ground assessing the most immediate needs. the natural disasters that have been hitting the world with earthquakes or deadly storms, such as those we have recently experienced in the eu, are forcing us to rethink the paradigm of humanitarian and emergency support, which requires a rapid, agile and concerted response. the eu has shown its effectiveness and capacity to react, and the ep, in addition to sending a heartfelt note of condolences to that country, is demonstrating with this debate its commitment to helping the reconstruction of chile, which was severely devastated by the earthquake of 27 february.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in cuba. we reiterate the need for the immediate release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. we consider that the detention of cuban dissidents for their ideals and peaceful political activity is a violation of the universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. - orlando zapata tamayo died of hunger and thirst because he demanded to be treated as what he was: a political prisoner persecuted by a regime which, despite changes in leadership, persists in maintaining a tight grip on its citizens and in preventing them from organising and expressing themselves freely. the tragic circumstances of this death should put us all to shame. in particular, the political decision-makers who, in the wake of the zapatero-moratinos duo, have caused european policy towards cuba to change. what the european union has achieved by its fearful attempt at appeasement is to increase the feeling of impunity and, accordingly, the feeling of isolation of the democrats who deserved much more from us. i hope that democratic firmness will return where there has been only lukewarmness, that the glaring failure of the change in european policy will be recognised once and for all, and that oswaldo payá and the damas de blanco will be able to travel freely to europe to see what is happening on that island.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. they want to make it more difficult for the spanish presidency to end the common position on cuba, which it has already publicly stated. they are attacking cuba and its people once again, seeking to interfere with its independence and sovereignty, its economic and social achievements and its exemplary international solidarity. capitalism is not the future of humanity. cuba remains an example of the possibility of building a society without exploiters and without exploited people, a socialist society. the representatives of capitalism in the ep do not accept this, trying to prevent a comprehensive political dialogue with the cuban government on the basis of the same criteria that the eu applies to all countries with which it has relations. they do not condemn the us embargo on cuba, which the un general assembly has called for to be lifted immediately on 18 occasions. they say nothing about the situation of the five cuban citizens who have been detained in the united states since 1998 without a fair trial, and they ignore that the united states continues to shelter a cuban who was the instigator of the bombing of a civilian airliner in which 76 people died.
in writing. - the eu cannot take a romantic view of the political regime in cuba, which is truly a communist dictatorship, based on a one-party logic that violates human rights, oppresses its citizens, persecutes and eliminates political opponents and keeps countless people in prison for the crime of opinion. the death of orlando zapata was just another case that shocked the world and that this european parliament must condemn firmly, without hesitation or false justification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - it is essential to focus on a radical change in society based on the sustainability of cities, decentralised energy production and the competitiveness of industry. it is a policy that is essential for a prosperous and sustainable society, prepared for the challenges of climate change, energy security and globalisation, and a world leader in clean technologies. the set-plan aims to contribute precisely to the development of clean technologies. i welcome the basic guidelines that the communication presents on how to organise the logic of intervention between the public and private sectors and between community, national and regional funding. however, it is essential to increase public funding for scientific research in the area of clean technologies. europe must also create the conditions for more private investment in scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of energy. it is urgent to move from words to deeds. the eu's forthcoming financial perspective and the 8th framework programme for research and technological development should give priority to energy security, the fight against climate change and the environment. only in this way will we be able to maintain the competitiveness of our industry, promote economic growth and create jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on 'investing in the development of low-carbon technologies' (set plan), as in order to respond effectively to the economic crisis, the eu must give priority to investment in these new technologies, which have a huge potential in terms of job creation. i believe that these investments can create new opportunities for the development of the eu's economy and competitiveness.
in writing. − the set plan, presented by the commission, proposes investment in r & d to develop clean, efficient and sustainable energy technologies with low carbon emissions, which will ensure the necessary reduction of emissions, without jeopardising european industries, thus making a commitment that we believe is serious about sustainable development. the new energy policies, especially in the face of a general crisis, must not lose sight of economic efficiency and must not in any way jeopardize the economic sustainability of european nations, without this implying a lesser commitment to the environment. that is why a new approach to energy policy, focusing on clean energy, a more efficient use of the natural resources at our disposal and a strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies is urgently needed if europe is to remain competitive and enable job creation in the context of creating an innovative and sustainable economy.
in writing. - i welcome the objectives of the strategic energy technology plan (set) which focus on the development of a low-carbon society. the set plan seeks to accelerate the development and deployment of low-carbon technologies. this plan includes measures relating to planning, implementation, resources and international cooperation in the field of innovative energy technologies. several studies estimate that promoting the european target of 20% renewable energy penetration will result in millions of new jobs by 2020. in addition, about two thirds of jobs will come from small and medium-sized enterprises. the solution is to develop green technologies. we need more funds for the set plan, which i believe should be done in the next review of the financial perspectives. we also need to promote green technologies and a skilled workforce through investment in education and research. the sooner we achieve a low-carbon society, the sooner we will get out of the crisis.
in writing. − the development and application of low-carbon technologies is of the utmost importance, not only for environmental reasons, including the need to reduce atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide, but also for energy reasons, given the inevitable progressive shortage and eventually depletion of fossil fuel reserves, on which humanity is highly dependent. unfortunately, both the set plan and the resolution now adopted do not only fail to address the problem fully - both in terms of the technologies and energy sources to be considered and the need to reduce consumption - but above all continue to regard this investment as a good business opportunity (in which a few will gain a lot at the expense of many) rather than an environmental and energy imperative for safeguarding the common good of mankind. it is significant and illustrative that in voting on the amendments to the resolution, instead of promoting 'ambitious targets for reducing' atmospheric carbon dioxide emissions, the choice was made to 'promote the trading of carbon emissions worldwide'.
in writing. − the use of low-carbon technologies which naturally produce less carbon dioxide is positive and desirable. however, we cannot accept that, at the expense of technological development and the strengthening of the so-called set plan, another pretext is sought to weaken national energy policies. the commission's words say that 'the set plan is the technological pillar of the community's energy and climate policy', leaving no doubt about the real guidelines of the european commission to take away sovereignty from the member states in a matter as important as national energy strategies. the resolution sets out in more detail aspects with which we cannot agree, namely the promotion of 'carbon trading worldwide', which has already proven to be of no benefit in reducing carbon emissions, and the creation of more public-private partnerships, placing the emphasis on 'substantially increasing public investment', thus putting public money at the service of private interest and profit. for all this, our vote against.
in writing. − investing in low-carbon technologies should be a priority, as it represents one of the most effective ways of combating climate change and moving the eu towards a green economy. smart low-carbon solutions should therefore merit special attention, in particular as regards their financing at community level, in order to achieve the environmental objectives set by the eu by 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, expressing my sorrow for the victims of the deaths and my solidarity with their families and friends in both natural disasters. these have affected different member states and regions very severely. i therefore stress the urgency of the european response to these events, in particular the activation of the european solidarity fund, thus demonstrating the union's solidarity with all those affected. it is important at this time to have special regard for island and peripheral regions, which, in addition to their permanent obstacles, are now faced with the devastation of infrastructure and personal, commercial and agricultural property, and in many cases the resumption of normal activities is not immediate, especially for regions that depend almost exclusively on tourism, as the media coverage of events could drive away potential visitors. it is therefore necessary to call on the commission and the council to act swiftly so that the council can reassess the proposal to make the implementation of the european solidarity fund simpler, faster and more flexible. it is also important to review with the member states the programmes and the european structural, agricultural and social funds in order to better respond to the emerging needs of these disasters.
in writing. - on 20 february, a unique weather phenomenon occurred on the island of madeira, killing at least 42 people, leaving 32 missing, 370 displaced and about 70 injured. on 27 and 28 february, another phenomenon occurred in the west of france, along the atlantic coast (poitou-charentes and pays de la loire), which caused the death of 60 people, 10 missing, more than 2 000 displaced. this storm also left several regions in spain, in particular the canary islands and andalusia, isolated. in addition to human and psychological suffering, these weather events have caused a scenario of widespread destruction, with a very high social and economic impact on the economic activity of these regions, with many people losing everything they had. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, urging the commission to take all the necessary steps to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) as quickly and flexibly as possible and to the maximum amount possible to help the victims. i also reiterate the need to draw up a new eusf regulation on the basis of the commission proposal in order to deal with the problems caused by natural disasters in a more flexible and effective way.
in writing. the storm that hit madeira on 20 february caused enormous losses, both in human and material terms, in the region. the role of the eu is of fundamental importance, as it has mechanisms and instruments such as the solidarity fund, the structural funds - erdf and esf - and the cohesion fund, which should be activated and implemented in a fast, flexible and simplified way. i welcome the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission, as soon as it receives the portuguese government's request, to take the necessary steps to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) as quickly and flexibly as possible and for the maximum amount possible. i call for solidarity between the institutions of the european union in order to ensure that the cohesion fund is used swiftly and flexibly, taking into account the specific nature of madeira as an island and outermost region. i appeal to the european commission to negotiate the revision of the erdf regional operational programmes intervir+ and esf rumos, as well as the section on wood in the cohesion fund's thematic operational programme 'land use'.
in writing. the natural disaster that struck madeira on 20 february has left a devastating legacy of human suffering and widespread destruction, with devastating consequences for the economic and productive structures of the region. a week later, a new natural disaster - the storm xynthia - had its devastating effects on the west of france and several regions of spain. i join in the feeling of grief and express my solidarity with all those affected by this tragedy, both in terms of human and material losses. aid to the people is urgently needed, as is the rebuilding of infrastructure, public facilities and essential services. it is true that the solidarity fund can only be paid out after the procedure for mobilising the fund has been completed and approved by the council and parliament. but in situations like this, it's very difficult to ask people who are facing immense hardship to go back to their normal life rhythm to wait. we therefore call for the utmost urgency and flexibility both in the provision of funds and in the adoption of exceptional measures to support the island of madeira.
in writing. - on 20 february this year, a tragedy occurred in madeira, characterised by unprecedented torrential rains, strong winds and heavy waves, which caused at least 42 deaths, several missing persons, hundreds of displaced persons and dozens of injured. i would like to stress the immediate efforts of the regional government of madeira and its institutions to take swift and coordinated action to deal with this tragedy. on 27-28 february 2010, a very strong and destructive storm called xynthia hit western france, particularly the poitou-charentes and pays-de-la-loire regions, killing almost 60 people, leaving many missing and thousands homeless. in the face of these tragedies, i express my deep sorrow and strong solidarity with all the affected regions, and i offer my condolences to the families of the victims and pay tribute to the search and rescue teams. i call on the commission, as soon as requested by the member state concerned, to take all necessary action to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to the maximum extent possible. in examining the request, the commission shall take into account the specific character of the individual regions concerned, in particular the fragility of the island and peripheral regions.
in writing. the recent natural disaster in madeira has left the island in a state of chaos. other regions of europe were also hit by the effects of xynthia. the eu should contribute unreservedly to a joint solidarity aid effort, by mobilising the european union solidarity fund. the eusf was established with the aim of providing urgent financial assistance to member states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to support the development of the regions affected by natural disasters. the heavy rains which made their presence felt in madeira on 20 february have had, in addition to the serious human consequences, 42 people killed, several injured and displaced, and serious material damage with numerous repercussions. in this context, there is an urgent need to provide assistance to the affected regions to recover from the economic and social consequences of disasters. i would stress the particular fragility of island and outermost regions, such as madeira, where the specific characteristics of their economic and social situation make it all the more urgent to provide the best possible aid. i reiterate the need to appeal to the european commission to mobilise the necessary solidarity fund in a flexible manner and to review the regional programmes financed by the cohesion fund in order to adapt them to the needs arising from the tragedy. it is also appropriate to readjust the funding foreseen for 2010 for specific projects in accordance with the general rules of the structural funds for 2007-2013. in view of the scale of the natural disaster in madeira and its indelible consequences, and the effects of the storm xynthia, i voted in favour of the document presented.
mr president, first of all i would like to salute the efforts made by gilad shalit’s family to seek his release, which we wholeheartedly support. that is the message we want to convey through this resolution. we believe, as the goldstone report highlights, that he is indeed entitled to the status of prisoner of war, as the prisoners kept by israel, including many children, should be. we want all of them to be released. we want gilad shalit and all the palestinian young men and women to be released. indeed this is only way for peace to be achieved in that region. we urge baroness ashton to spare no effort to press for the release of gilad shalit and all the other palestinian prisoners of war, especially those young people who are enduring this captivity.
on behalf of the s&d group. violence in mexico is linked to drug trafficking and to social disparities that the economic crisis has exacerbated. the fight against impunity is decisive. it is urgent to invest in the judicial system to try and punish criminals and to ensure protection for witnesses and victims, many young working women caught up in the wave of drug traffickers' violence. it is shocking that juarez is the femicide capital of the world, but even more shocking is the machista culture that explains the inaction of the authorities in prosecuting the perpetrators of these crimes and in protecting human rights defenders, including journalists. europe must use its strategic partnership with mexico to provide structural support for all those who are fighting for human rights there. they are the same people who are fighting for the rule of law and democracy. and without human rights there is no rule of law and no democracy.
the mexican electricians' union was surrounded by a police force of between 100 and 200 police officers this morning. it is the same union which, after announcing a general strike on the 16th, saw one of its leaders arrested, mr domingo aguilar vázquez, who was arrested on spurious charges. the attack on freedom of association in mexico by the government itself is all the more shocking because we have been talking here about impunity on the part of the mexican federal government for crimes committed, for example, by its own military, or its ineffectiveness in the fight against drug trafficking. yeah, the picture is mixed. there are attacks by the army on drug trafficking, but at the same time there are also attacks on the unions themselves. and what happens is that in a situation of inefficiency, of impunity and of increasing authoritarianism, it's a democracy like the mexican democracy that slips. this parliament must condemn more forcefully and above all ask the mexican government to finally stop being ineffective with criminals and seemingly so authoritarian with, for example, trade unions, workers and civil society movements.
in writing. europe has been a project of peace, social well-being, freedom and growth. europe has led by example in terms of its social model and has played a leading role in environmental issues, without any kind of comparison in world terms. the economic, financial and social crisis we are currently experiencing calls for concerted responses at european level. the crisis in greece and the attack on the euro require a common response, which unfortunately takes time. a european solution is possible and desirable to avoid the constant speculative attacks on the euro. the eu has credibility and liquidity, which, with the necessary coordination at european level, would already be sufficient to calm the market and the costs of the loans that greece needs. this is a time when solidarity is called for between the states and the european institutions. it's still a matter of responsibility. the next european council is expected to act in pursuit of integrated and coordinated solidarity. this is the attitude required for the european project to continue. the search for solutions to monitor the deficits of each member state should be the next step.
in writing. the serious social problems facing several member states of the european union (unemployment, precarious work and poverty) require a serious and profound response from this spring european council. however, we fear that the answers will be directed mainly towards the so-called sustainability of public finances, forgetting measures for social sustainability. the response to the situation in greece is an important issue, especially because what is happening contradicts everything that has been propagated about the virtues of the euro and the benefits of belonging to the euro zone, of being in that "front row" of a strong currency of the rich countries, of being told that belonging to the euro zone was insurance against financial crises by avoiding the use of imf loans and revenues. the first crisis was enough to show that there is no solidarity in the euro area and that the so-called 'economic and social cohesion' is nothing more than a mere propaganda expression in electoral campaigns. now mrs merkel is even threatening to expel from the euro area those who, like greece and others, do not comply with the stability pact, forgetting that germany was and is the great beneficiary of the policy of a strong euro... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
only a few months ago, some people here said that the treaty of lisbon would never come into force. well, we are here to start thinking about how we are going to apply it, by putting some of its provisions into practice. the lisbon treaty makes a significant contribution to combating the democratic deficit. i am talking about strengthening parliaments (the european parliament and national parliaments), but above all about the citizens' commitment to a europe: with the rules it contains on the area of freedom, security and justice, on the control of subsidiarity, and with the creation of this innovative popular action initiative. i agree with what many of my colleagues have said, and particularly mr mendes de vigo, but i would like to stress that when we regulate this instrument we must ensure that it has a real european dimension. it is certainly necessary to avoid it being merely the expression of the will of the citizens of one country or of a very small number of countries. but we must also seek a solution which favours and encourages citizen participation. if we had to choose between being too strict and strict or being more generous, i would risk being more generous. if we find solutions which discourage citizens from participating, we betray the spirit of the lisbon treaty and deny european citizenship, because, ladies and gentlemen, we need more europe, more europe of the citizens, more participation and the dynamic exercise of this european citizenship.
the european union recently concluded an agreement with the countries of latin america in the world trade organization, in which it undertook to reduce substantially and progressively the tariffs on banana imports from these countries. i would draw your attention to the fact that this agreement has a direct negative effect on european banana producers, particularly on the banana producers of madeira in portugal, but also, and even more intensely, of the canary islands in spain. i would remind you that the situation of producers in these regions is already seriously hampered by the physical and orographic characteristics of the islands and the size of their holdings, which means that they are faced with permanent difficulties which impede their development. it is therefore urgent to take measures to protect banana producers in madeira and the canary islands, given the serious and immediate impact that the new geneva agreement will have on the european import market and, consequently, on the production and marketing of bananas from these outermost regions.
on behalf of the ppe group. i welcome the fact that we can classify the 2011 budget as the youth budget. the adoption of proposals to help young people, for example in accessing employment, such as the erasmus first employment programme, contributes to this. the promotion of young entrepreneurship, the encouragement and strengthening of innovation and the digital agenda are other proposals that contribute to sustainable economic development in europe and the consequent creation of jobs. as regards parliament's budget, the european people's party is in favour of a sustainable and rigorous budget, where every expenditure is justified. we believe, and therefore propose, that a purely incremental budget model be abandoned and that we move towards a zero-based budget, which makes efficiency and, consequently, savings possible. for this concept of sustainability, rigour and efficiency, it is urgent, for example, to define a long-term real estate policy. we also need to know precisely, to know better the value of fixed expenditure. a cost-benefit analysis of the various policies implemented should also be carried out. we reiterate that parliament's priority objective must be legislative excellence and that our institution must have the means to do so. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which requires a single reading of the budget, will require greater cooperation, a stronger dialogue, which on our part will be a loyal dialogue. we shall be committed to that.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we are starting today the debate on the broad guidelines for the 2011 budget and the priority that is suggested is that of youth, in particular at the time or period of life that marks the transition between studies and the labour market. in itself, this choice is to be welcomed. for example, the creation of an erasmus first job is proposed, and the problem in politics is that the devil is in the details. what do we mean when we talk about an erasmus first job? how are we gonna do that? by diverting erasmus funds to students or creating a new programme with fresh money? it is not a detail, just as it is not a detail whether this erasmus is for precarious jobs or whether, on the contrary, it is for decent jobs, which can be a gamble with a horizon for young people. is it a youth unemployment programme, as it should be? or could it turn out to be a program to hide unemployment? and it is with this example that i enter into the substance of the debate: the urgent issue for 2011 will be the widespread unemployment in the union. it is unemployment that confronts us with our responsibilities. it should challenge the european budget, but the 2011 budget is held hostage to a financial framework decided for seven years and which has not been touched despite the crisis. without a thorough and demanding review of this financial framework, the budget we will adopt at the end of the year will be doomed to continuity and mediocrity even if we adopt the best priorities in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
youth, science and innovation are at the heart of the priorities of the next eu budget. investing in youth is investing in the future. education, vocational training and the transition from education to the labour market are at the heart of this budget. young graduates are increasingly being hit by unemployment. i therefore consider the erasmus first employment mobility programme to be a strategic bet for the future, by establishing a clear link between the education system and the labour market. the proposal for the creation of the erasmus first employment programme, which i have tabled together with mr josé manuel fernandes, is based on the following principles: first, additional funding to existing programmes in the field of education, science, training and innovation; secondly, each action will have a training component and a component where the trainee will have a contract with an innovative european company and will be co-financed by the european budget. i would also like to stress, as one of the other priorities in this budget, the areas of scientific research, innovation and the digital agenda. this budget also concentrates efforts on supporting the development of clean and innovative technologies, making an essential contribution to economic recovery and the dynamism of smes. the focus on youth, innovation and science is the key to re-establishing europe's global leadership.
the economic and social situation in the eu requires a substantial change in the priorities for 2011 that have guided previous budgets, including the current one for 2010. it demands that the budget be put at the service of policies which are quite different from those which have led to the unemployment of over 23 million people and have put over 85 million at risk of poverty. the objectives of a multiannual financial framework which reduced the structural funds to 0.37% of the eu's gross national income, which implied cuts in programmes of a social and environmental nature and in the fields of research, education and culture, need to be revised. the future budgets should be instruments for economic and social cohesion, understood as more than a dead letter in the treaties, for full employment with rights, investment and public services, environmental protection, cooperation and peace. it is not an instrument for the commodification of growing aspects of social life, liberalization, precarious employment, structural unemployment, foreign intervention and war. that is the point of the amendments we have tabled to the report: to show that there is an alternative and that it is not only possible but necessary.
certification mechanisms can contribute to the necessary enhancement of farmers' work by improving their income and to the promotion of food quality and safety. but the current certification procedures are complex, time-consuming and, above all, expensive, so their results have been perverse, particularly for small and mediumsized farmers. an increase in production costs and a distribution of income along the value chain, even more unfavourable to the producer, with the insertion of another agent in the chain doing business. for this reason, and also as an effective guarantee of transparency, quality and safety for consumers, certification should be carried out by public bodies and should not represent an additional cost for producers. but above all, a quality policy requires another agricultural policy: a thorough reform of the cap, which defends local production, the right to produce and the right to food sovereignty, which defends farmers and consumers from the consequences of deregulation of world trade and unbridled liberalisation of markets, by stopping them both in the framework of bilateral agreements and in the framework of the wto.
it is time for the leaders of the european union to recognise their responsibilities in the serious social crisis that is being experienced at european and world level as a result of the financial and economic crisis which they have facilitated by deregulating financial and commercial markets and by pressing for free trade agreements with third countries, without taking into account the interests of workers and peoples. the increase in unemployment and increasingly precarious and low-paid work are increasing poverty and are a direct consequence of neo-liberal policies and the crisis of capitalism. the ilo and the oecd believe that the peak of unemployment in the industrialized countries has not yet been reached and that in the near future more than 200 million workers may be pushed into extreme poverty, which means that the number of working poor may reach 1.5 billion, mainly women and young people. it is time to put an end to the backwardness we are experiencing in terms of social and labour rights. priority must be given to quality employment with rights, while at the same time respecting at least the ilo conventions. without the creation of new jobs with entitlements there is no way out of the crisis.
the world day against tuberculosis, which is being marked today, is an occasion to call for the strengthening of political dialogue and the involvement of governments and civil society in this cause. in the european union, the number of tuberculosis cases has been declining. in portugal, there is also a marked reduction, but with an incidence rate still above the eu average. this reduction is associated with the good performance of the national plan for the fight against tuberculosis. however, in some countries there has been a resurgence of the disease. the various action plans promoted by the european commission are moving in the right direction. i would like to emphasize the partnership between europe and the developing countries in the conduct of clinical trials. support from the framework programme for research and technological development for the life sciences is also important. it is essential to strengthen the role of clinical and scientific research in the fight against tuberculosis. it is therefore essential to continue to work towards discovering new and better tools to combat tb and to promote innovative technologies in diagnostics, medicines and vaccines. i therefore call on the commission and governments to join forces and step up the fight against tuberculosis so that we can successfully control and eradicate this disease.
the crises mentioned in the report (food, energy, climate, financial, economic and social) are but differentiated expressions of the same structural crisis that has been dragging on for decades. in some regions, such as sub-saharan africa, per capita wealth relative to other regions of the world has been diverging from decade to decade in a continuous way. despite the disparities, developing countries generally share some common characteristics: dependence on exports of a small number of raw materials, lack of economic diversification, a high concentration in agriculture, the extractive or energy sector, or tourism, and a strong dominance of foreign capital. the promotion of an export model and the gradual liberalisation of trade which has been imposed on these countries, if necessary by means of blackmail, as the process of negotiating economic partnership agreements shows, lead to an increase in the dependence of these countries, compromising endogenous development potential. but it is external debt that continues to be the main drain on the resources of developing countries. the debt has reached a colossal size and is self-sustaining, while maintaining the nature of its relations with the northern countries. its cancellation is first and foremost a matter of justice.
in writing. - article 3 (1) of council directive 72/462/eec of 12 december 1972 on health and veterinary inspection problems upon importation of bovine, ovine and caprine animals and fresh meat or meat products from third countries led the council, on a proposal from the commission, to adopt a list of third countries from which member states are to authorise imports of bovine, ovine and caprine animals and fresh meat. although this directive has been repealed, the procedure has remained and the list has been amended over the years, and the commission now proposes to create a regulation which will codify all the relevant amendments made over the years and which should be amended frequently so that it is constantly updated. i believe that this procedure brings clarity and transparency, not only for the member states in the event of changes, but also for third countries exporting the products concerned to the eu.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report on health problems in the importation of bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine animals and fresh meat or meat products from third countries. this report is based on council directive 72/462/eec of 12 december 1972, which led the council to adopt a list of third countries from which member states are to authorise imports of bovine animals, swine and fresh meat. despite the repeal of this directive, the procedure has been maintained and the list has been amended over the years, and it is now proposed that the commission should present a regulation codifying all the relevant amendments made over the years, which should be amended frequently so that it is constantly updated. i believe that this procedure not only enhances food security for eu citizens, but also brings greater clarity to member states and third countries exporting meat products to the eu.
in writing. - the food security of eu citizens is a fundamental issue that should concern us all. the definition of health policy criteria for the importation of certain live animals and their fresh meat from third countries must be very strict and these products must be systematically controlled so that we can verify that they are being complied with. it is therefore crucial that a list of third countries that meet the animal and public health criteria and veterinary certification to export live animals (bovine, porcine, ovine and caprine) and their fresh meat to eu countries is drawn up.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. since 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf has been extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic and financial crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious economic and financial crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond to the consequences of this crisis, particularly in terms of the support to be given to people who have been confronted, overnight, with the reality of unemployment. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal concerning the mobilisation of the egf for lithuania to support workers made redundant in the 49 companies operating in the furniture manufacturing sector.
in writing. - like the building sector in lithuania, which we have discussed earlier, the furniture industry has also been affected by globalisation and is now exposed to the products of fierce competition and production on a different scale. the conditions for applying for and mobilising the fund having been met, i think we should support this mobilisation.
in writing. - just two weeks after parliament approved the mobilisation of this fund to deal with redundancies in lithuania and germany, we are again approving its mobilisation, this time to deal with redundancies in 49 furniture manufacturing companies in lithuania. as we said then, the number of workers made redundant has long since exceeded the commission's initial estimates of the number of workers who could benefit from the fund. we would remind you that this is a sector which has been experiencing serious difficulties in portugal too, particularly in the municipalities where it has a significant presence, such as paredes and paços de ferreira, which has also led to redundancies and to the worsening of the social situation in the region. each new request for action makes it clearer that, far from the palliative measures - which are certainly necessary - what is required are urgent measures to protect the productive sectors and employment, particularly those most vulnerable to the crisis and those which are part of the exploitation of the development potential of each country, by promoting public projects and supporting micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, the cooperative sector... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. since 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf has been extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic and financial crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious economic and financial crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond to the consequences of this crisis, particularly in terms of the support to be given to people who have been confronted, overnight, with the reality of unemployment. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal concerning the mobilisation of the egf for lithuania to support workers made redundant in the 45 companies active in the clothing manufacturing sector.
in writing. the lithuanian construction and furniture industries are joined by the clothing industry, which has been hit hard by globalisation and has thrown significant numbers of workers into unemployment. the massive vote in favour in the parliamentary committee responsible confirms the apparent goodness of the measure. i therefore see no reason to vote against the mobilisation of the fund in this case.
in writing. - just two weeks after parliament approved the mobilisation of this fund to deal with redundancies in lithuania and germany, we are again approving its mobilisation, this time also to deal with redundancies in 45 companies active in the clothing manufacturing sector in lithuania. it is worth remembering that this is a sector which is also in serious crisis in portugal, suffering particularly severely from the effects of the liberalization of world trade, without the necessary safeguard measures having been taken. each new request for the fund to be mobilised gives renewed urgency to the measures we have been advocating, namely the effective fight against unemployment and the creation and promotion of jobs with rights based on the development of economic activity, the dynamism of public employment, the eradication of precariousness and the reduction of working hours without reduction of wages. the commission has also taken measures to combat the relocation of firms, by making public aid, particularly community aid, conditional on compliance with obligations such as the protection of employment and local development. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
in writing. - the eu is a space of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to this end. these supports are essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who have had their businesses relocated and is therefore essential to ensure that they can return to work in the future. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries, notably portugal and spain, and it is now up to lithuania to provide this aid.
in writing. − the member states of the european union are currently experiencing major difficulties as a result of the financial, economic and social crisis, reflected in the serious state of their public accounts. most countries are over-indebted and measures to contribute to stability and growth are urgently needed to achieve a more balanced situation. it is essential to reduce public debt levels and to review the priorities of states so that public funds are allocated efficiently, in particular in order to lay the foundations for policies that promote economic growth and, consequently, social well-being. it is essential to review tax policy so that the right stimulus is provided to the economy because only a strong economy can overcome the present difficulties and prepare for the future.
in writing. − the economic crisis that has hit the eu, and which is still being felt quite strongly, has revealed some gaps in the eu's monetary policy and in the public finances of some member states. we must learn from past mistakes so that they are not repeated in the future. the eu needs to improve in several areas, including monetary policy, improved coordination and cooperation on economic policy, control of member states' public finances, tackling energy dependence and creating more new jobs in modern and environmentally sustainable industries.
in writing. - vítor constâncio was, throughout his years as governor of the banco de portugal, a faithful follower of the guidelines imposed by the european central bank on the member states of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's constant appeals for wage moderation are well known in a country where low wages abound and where social inequalities are glaring, which are also the result of an unfair distribution of income, which penalizes labour in favour of capital. it is also known that it failed to perform the banking supervision tasks assigned to it. the defence of the irrational criteria of the stability pact, the guidelines for exchange rate policies and other macroeconomic guidelines, the devaluation of production and labour - of which vítor constâncio has been the protagonist - will continue, as hitherto, to have our strongest and most vigorous opposition.
in writing. - this vote on the council recommendation concerning the appointment of vitor constâncio as vice-president of the european central bank does not surprise us. his actions as governor of the banco de portugal have always been in line with the ecb's liberal guidelines. the policies pursued and imposed by the ecb on the member states of the european union, which are deeply damaging to national interests and sovereignty and infringe upon the rights of workers and the portuguese people, are, in essence, the same as those which vitor constâncio defended and defends as governor of the banco de portugal. it is against these policies that we will continue to fight, regardless of whether i am a member of your board. we therefore voted against this report, because in the replies it gives, the same line as that of the european central bank is reaffirmed, with the defence of the irrational criteria of the stability pact, the guidelines for exchange rate policies and other macroeconomic guidelines, always devaluing the role of production and labour.
in writing. − in 2008, i was involved for months in a commission of inquiry in the portuguese parliament, which discovered and exposed serious supervisory failures, which resulted in the nationalization of a bank in 2008, and which led to hundreds of customers still being unable to move money they had invested (often their life savings) in another bank. i mean bpn and bpp. at the time, i publicly criticised, on several occasions, even to his face, dr victor constâncio's performance as supervisor at the head of the banco de portugal. the fact that i am portuguese and the solidarity i have with the epp prevents me from voting against. but in conscience, and even intellectual honesty, i could not vote for an appointment that would lead you exactly to supervision, this time at the ecb.
in writing. - the objections of those who would not like to see the appointment in question take place are understandable. however, if we were to use this criterion as a basis for justifying our militancy on the extreme left of communism or for reasons of communist inspiration, then this europe, which is responsible for so many and varied acts which are subject to the highest censorship, would imply that many others could not be either. and so my abstention is justified.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several persons from various eu countries to the court of auditors. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner.
in writing. - at a time of grave social crisis, with the worsening of poverty and unemployment resulting from the crisis of capitalism, this 65th general assembly of the united nations is all the more important. there are many issues of global concern, notably monitoring the degree of achievement of the millennium development goals and targets as minimum outcomes to be achieved by 2015, and countering any attempts to water down, weaken or delay the promises made. it is therefore important to try to get agreement between developed and developing countries on accelerated action, including clear and concrete programmes and commitments, given that the international community is far from honouring its commitments to achieve the millennium development goals and that if appropriate measures are not taken, we could have some 1.5 billion workers in poverty because of unemployment and precarious and low-paid work.
in writing. − the next session of the united nations general assembly is another opportunity for the eu to present itself as the true catalyst for world peace and solidarity. we must not forget that the eu is the main financier of the united nations, with 40% of the estimated budget of the organization, 40% of the costs of peacekeeping and 12% of the troops in conflict zones. it is also the first general assembly to be attended by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. we must therefore take on our role as leading actors, redefining the union's role in the united nations, looking at global governance and un reform, peace and security, development and climate change.
in writing. - the second european roma summit represents a commitment to dialogue on cultural diversity and what it represents in terms of human wealth. education is the key to the integration process. by providing education and training, we are fighting against exclusion, unemployment and discrimination. we are also ensuring a more just, more creative and more dynamic society. it is important to integrate ethnic minorities not only into the labour market but also into all spheres of society. protecting fundamental rights and creating a common area of freedom, security and justice are objectives of european integration. i applaud all those who promote integration at the local level, including politicians, teachers and associations, as they are often responsible for access to housing, health care, education, culture and an increased quality of life. i call on the european union and the member states to make concerted efforts and to focus on political strategies with clear legislative commitments and credible budgetary allocations. it is important to adopt a common position on the financing policy through the structural funds and the pre-accession funds.
in writing. - it is estimated that between 10 and 12 million roma live in the eu, making them one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. most of these people live in conditions of extreme poverty and on the margins of society, with limited access to employment, education and health care. this ethnic minority continues to be the victim of discrimination and social exclusion, despite efforts to integrate it. the eu has been supporting member states' efforts to implement effective policies, including by supporting specific projects and by trying to ensure the correct and effective application of anti-discrimination laws. a conference was held in brussels this month to present the various eu projects under development. the results are expected to be discussed at the 2nd roma summit in cordoba in april. i hope that the outcome of this summit will contribute to a strong european political commitment to the future strategy for promoting the inclusion of roma people in the economic, social and cultural life of europe and ensuring equal opportunities for all in the eu, including roma.
in writing. - gypsy communities have existed throughout europe for many centuries and until recently were the target of persecution by many of the member states. their traditional nomadism, the activities they engaged in, the high rate of inbreeding and the exclusion to which they were voted contributed to the labelling of members of these communities as undesirable, dangerous and anti-social. not only do these prejudices persist today, but the consequences historically inherent in them persist, and today the roma are still one of the communities with the lowest rates of schooling and the highest crime rates. it will be for sociologists and historians to assess the causes and consequences of the problems affecting the roma. politicians are asked to be able to do something for the communities they serve. it is therefore particularly important that, on the basis of serious and in-depth studies on this subject, concrete ways and measures be identified to combat the exclusion of roma and to promote their genuine integration into the societies in which they live.
in writing. - the resolution on the second european roma summit to be held in cordoba on 8 and 9 april expresses concern at the discrimination suffered by the roma community in the fields of education, housing, employment and equal access to health systems and other public services, as well as the surprisingly low level of their participation in political life. the european parliament has, however, called on the european commission to draw up new proposals on the social inclusion of roma and urges the member states to make more visible efforts to address their just rights, taking into account that anti-discrimination measures are insufficient to facilitate the social inclusion of roma and that concerted efforts are needed at eu level, including in financial terms. the resolution recommends that the council adopt a common position on the financing policies under the structural funds and the pre-accession funds in order to reflect the european political commitment to promote the inclusion of the roma community. we hope that this second european roma summit will focus on strategic political commitments that reflect a political will to bridge the gap between roma communities and majority populations in various countries.
in writing. − the eu is a place of solidarity and inclusion, and it should do what is necessary to ensure that roma are no longer discriminated against and have the same rights to education, employment, health and housing in all member states, as well as in those that in the future wish to join. decisive steps must be taken to end discrimination, but this will require that roma do not exclude themselves and help them to integrate into a european area of inclusion.
in writing. - there is an undeniable need to strengthen border control operations coordinated by frontex and to have common operational procedures and clear rules for participation in joint maritime operations, mostly search and rescue, and for the disembarkation of rescued persons. the commission decided to submit a draft decision to this effect on the basis of the comitology procedure. the council was unable to overcome its divisions on the subject and preferred to hide behind technical arguments in order to evade the european parliament, ignoring our powers. the opinion of the ep legal service leaves no doubt. the commission has exceeded its implementing powers. we are not dealing with a purely technical measure. in the words of commissioner malmström herself, this is an initiative of great political significance and practical implications. the vote against is not only an affirmation of parliamentary prerogatives but also an act of solidarity with the small countries unjustly penalized by that resolution.
in writing. - youth, science and innovation are at the heart of the priorities of the next eu budget. investing in youth is investing in the future. this investment must be made in a coordinated way across the various policies. education, vocational training and the transition from education to the labour market are at the heart of this budget. young graduates and skilled workers are increasingly being hit by unemployment. i therefore consider the erasmus first employment mobility programme to be a strategic bet on the future by establishing a clear link between the education system and the labour market. i would also like to highlight the areas of research, innovation and the digital agenda, as well as other priorities in this budget: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection. i would also stress the importance of existing programmes which contribute to this objective, such as the european institute of innovation and technology. this budget also concentrates efforts on supporting the development of clean and innovative technologies, thus making an essential contribution to economic recovery and the dynamism of smes. the focus on youth, innovation and science is the key to re-establishing europe's global leadership.
in writing. − in a context of widespread crisis and against the backdrop of the ambitious demands of strategy 2020 in terms of innovation, combating poverty and social exclusion, and economic growth and employment, it is essential to put the challenges of strategy 2020 at the heart of budgetary priorities. i am therefore pleased to see that the priorities set by the commission for the 2011 budget clearly focus on education, research and innovation policies. it is also essential to keep in mind the economic recovery and the exit from the crisis, and that is why i also welcome the fact that support for smes is a priority concern for the 2011 budget. i would remind you that, in the context of the reform of the cap, it is necessary to increase the budgetary resources allocated to the common agricultural policy, a priority which the commission should also take on. i would stress that this 2011 budget will be the first to be adopted under the rules of the lisbon treaty, with the increased involvement of parliament that this entails.
in writing. − the priorities proposed for the 2011 budget, despite the social rhetoric that is inevitable in times of crisis, are fairly clear in their intention to maintain, in essence, the priorities that have guided previous budgets. once again, the aim is a budget that serves the deepening of the single market, job insecurity, vulgar flexicurity, liberalization, the commodification of the environment and the growing spheres of social life. these are old guidelines, but they have now been brought together in the new 'strategy 2020'. the priority given to young people does not hide the fact that the aim is to anticipate, already now, for the new generations of workers, a future in which unemployment is structural, seen as a strategic variable to impose the devaluation of their workforce, even if qualified, by forcing them to jump from precarious work to precarious work, alternating with inevitable unemployment. these are priorities which also put the 2011 budget at the service of the eu's external interventionism, the cfsp and the esdp, militarism and war, policies which criminalise immigration, and frontex. the report therefore merits only our vote against it. but this is neither the only way nor an inevitable one. that is what we have tried to demonstrate in the various proposals we have put forward during the debate.
in writing. − after the failure of the lisbon strategy, the eu has a new opportunity to be the great catalyst of the world economy, with the eu2020 strategy. for this new plan to be a success, the various budgets to be adopted need to prioritise a number of key areas for the success of the eu2020 strategy. we are talking about innovation, support for young people to increase social mobility and increased support for smes, which are the real economic engines of countries. it is also essential that very significant investment is made in the field of climate change, the environment and social policies. however, finding new ways of financing and raising funds is crucial for the eu2020 strategy to be a success, as we cannot do as we have done in the past with the reallocation of funds for structural, cohesion or common agricultural policies.
in writing. - the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon means increased powers for the european parliament. in a globalised world, matters are becoming increasingly complex and decisions need to be based on technical and scientific knowledge. it is essential that policy-makers are aware of recent scientific developments to enable them to make the best choices. this budget sets out long-term guidelines for housing policy which could help to reduce costs in the future. i call for increased training and technical support for members, as they provide the means for this parliament to perform its duties with excellence and with the scientific and technical foundations so necessary in the 21st century.
in writing. - in view of the new institutional framework, with the strengthening of the powers of many of the institutions, such as the european parliament, it is essential that the budget allocated to the institutions for their operation ensure all the material and human conditions so that they can carry out their tasks within the institutional framework with rigor and excellence. i am in favour of a budget which is realistic and feasible, but which gives the various institutions the material conditions for carrying out their tasks. these considerations should not, however, call into question the budgetary sustainability and the strictness of accounts which are necessary in any institution. in addition, the rigorous and transparent management of the funds made available to the various institutions must be ensured.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has brought new responsibilities to the european parliament. this leads to an increased administrative burden and the need for members to have qualified staff to carry out advisory functions. this new reality brings two problems: the increased costs of requiring more assistants and the physical space needed for them to perform their duties in good working conditions. this leads to increased costs, which in this time of crisis is difficult to explain, but if the european parliament is to do an excellent job it must have the necessary human and financial resources.
in writing. − the circumstances of the adoption of the 2011 budget are both exceptional and challenging. the successful implementation of the lisbon treaty is a higher priority, while the effects of the economic crisis in the european union make this objective more demanding. the epp group, to which i belong, continues to advocate a sustainable and rigorous budget, in which every expenditure is justified and in which it is possible to ensure a sustainability of rigor and efficiency. i therefore advocate a zero-based budget, which allows for efficiency and savings. to achieve this objective, a long-term real estate policy is urgently needed. i agree with the need to promote greater cooperation and a strong interinstitutional dialogue for a better and more efficient use of resources in various areas such as translation, real estate policy, among others. i stress the importance of the european parliament's legislative excellence as a priority and the need to equip the institution with the necessary and appropriate means to fulfil its legislative role successfully. i therefore voted in favour of the 2011 budgetary guidelines set out in this report... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report entitled 'the quality policy for agricultural products: what strategy to adopt?' because quality is a decisive factor for the competitiveness of european products on international markets. in this context, i welcome the introduction of mandatory labelling of the origin of products, which allows consumers to be informed about quality standards, but also about environmental protection and animal welfare.
in writing. - the common agricultural policy will necessarily have to rely on the high quality of its agricultural products, an undeniable added value for european competitiveness in a global market environment. quality policy cannot be separated from the rest of the common agricultural policy, nor can it ignore new challenges such as the fight against climate change, the conservation of biodiversity, energy supply and the development of bioenergy, animal welfare and water management in agriculture. the future policy on the quality of agricultural products must also take due account of the increasing demands of consumers, bearing in mind that, at the time of decision, quality matters to an informed consumer. i would remind you, however, that the quality policy for agricultural products cannot be so demanding that it puts small and mediumsized farmers at risk or the existence of traditional products from certain regions which cannot see their manufacture dependent on uniform and blind rules. the aim of quality policy should be to promote the member states' agriculture on the world market and to defend european products, serving both producers and consumers.
in writing. - the report under discussion contains some positive aspects, such as the defence of the application of instruments which allow the valorization and promotion of small-scale local production, as well as traditional and artisanal productions linked to certain regions of origin and associated with a geographical designation, while at the same time recognizing the delays, complexity and excessive cost faced by small producers in accessing quality certificates. however, it ignores issues that are essential to safeguarding the quality of agricultural production and the sustainability of agricultural activity in the eu countries, such as: the consequences of the deregulation of world trade and the unbridled liberalisation of markets, whether in the framework of bilateral agreements or in the framework of the wto; the various dangers inherent in the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment, in the ways in which this has been conducted; the need for a thorough reform of the cap, which defends local production, the right to produce and the right to food sovereignty.
in writing. - the quality of european agricultural products is a world-recognised heritage, and there is a need to protect and distinguish them from products of lower quality, food safety and sometimes even counterfeit. to prevent this from happening, it is imperative that these products be labelled, so that consumers can obtain reliable information about them. it is also important to have a clear understanding that imported agricultural products meet the same requirements as those imposed on agricultural products produced in the eu, so that there are no distortions of competition. so i vote in favour.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report, which introduces fundamental questions for sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy. developing countries are the most affected by global warming, and it is therefore essential to step up all measures to combat climate change, such as the transfer of appropriate technologies. it is also important to agree on the eu's emissions trading scheme, whereby at least 25% of the revenues generated from the auctioning of carbon dioxide emission allowances will be devoted to aid to developing countries. issues such as sustainable development and green growth should be eu strategic priorities. i call for additional funds to be allocated to developing countries and for these to be sustainable in the medium and long term, from the private sector, the carbon market and the public sector in industrialized countries and the most economically advanced developing countries.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis that is afflicting us has had disastrous effects on developing countries, which have already been victims of successive crises (food, energy, climate and financial). it is urgent to help those who did not cause this crisis, but who are the most affected. the european union and the developed countries must respond swiftly, firmly and effectively. i believe it is crucial that member states meet their official development assistance commitments and strengthen their commitments to achieve the millennium development goals. the commission and the council must also reform international development cooperation, which is one of the main causes of ineffective development aid. i also think that the improvement in the credit facilities granted by financial institutions to the poorest countries is commendable. but it is not enough. i support the calls in this report for more sustained support for development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation. it should be stressed that the developing countries, although not at the origin of the international crisis, are disproportionately affected by it. as the main donor of aid to developing countries, the european union has a key role to play in providing the necessary leadership to adopt measures at international level to achieve the millennium development goals.
in writing. - when we speak of the financial, economic and social crisis we are currently experiencing, we are referring to a global crisis in which special attention must be paid to the developing countries which have been directly and indirectly affected by this crisis. existing mechanisms for aid to the least-favoured countries and their populations facing conditions of extreme poverty and misery should be applied in a more efficient and targeted manner, without leading to dependency which could have negative effects on growth, wages and employment. the instruments and policies of development cooperation should therefore be ensured to enable effective development, which requires more coordinated action at both bilateral and multilateral levels. humanitarian aid, cooperation and development actions should be implemented and in this field the member states, the european union and international organisations have a key role to play. however, i am opposed to the adoption of an international financial transaction tax (tobin tax) to help finance these countries, because of the impact this would have on society at large.
in writing. - the report under discussion deals with very important issues, defending correct positions, such as the end of tax havens, the cancellation of the external debt of some countries, the need to increase efforts in the field of official development aid and the taxation of financial transactions. we cannot, however, fail to point out some negative and even contradictory aspects of the report, such as the defence of trade liberalisation, as it has been conducted by the eu, in particular through the so-called economic partnership agreements, which it has sought to impose on the acp countries, despite the resistance and denunciations of its negative consequences on the part of many of them, as well as the absence of a more comprehensive approach to the problem of external debt.
in writing. i voted against this resolution for several reasons, including the vote in plenary on what i regard as key votes on the amendments to paragraphs 7, 31 and 34, as well as the decision on the so-called rights to sexual and reproductive health and the road towards the enshrinement of future european taxes, with which i disagree head on, as i have stated on several occasions, particularly during the election campaign for the european parliament.
in writing. − in the context of the current economic, financial and social crisis, the ecb's role has been crucial in the way it has presented measures to respond to it, notably through measures that have enabled member states to maintain their liquidity, grant credit to businesses and reduce interest rates, amongst others. i believe, however, that exit strategies should take account of real financial market stability, otherwise the effects felt so far, and which have been mitigated by these measures, will become even more pronounced. i also think that some reflection is needed on the adaptation of the stability and growth pact, with the aim of making it more flexible and adapted to exceptional situations such as the one we are experiencing.
in writing. - as we know, the ecb's decisions are also partly responsible for the crisis we are experiencing. it is interesting to note that the report itself does not fail to make some criticisms of the ecb's actions. the ecb's economic projections, like those of the imf and other international institutions, failed to predict the severity of the 2008 recession. it also does so when it 'notes that the interest rate cuts by the ecb were less drastic than those by other central banks, such as the us federal reserve and the bank of england in the uk, and than many economic observers expected at the time'. but the report continues to defend the ecb and its guidelines, even going into major contradictions, which is why we voted against it. however, there are some other aspects that deserve reflection, in particular when it expresses its disappointment that the additional liquidity injected by the ecb has not sufficiently mitigated the credit crunch faced by industry, in particular by small and medium-sized enterprises, and that some banks have used this liquidity to improve their margins and cover their losses.
in writing. - the serious economic crisis affecting the whole world has been felt most acutely within the eu. the ecb's response to the crisis was effective, although it sometimes failed by being late or unasserted, notably the policy of reducing interest rates, which was more radical and effective in the united kingdom and the us federal reserve. we must learn from our mistakes so that they will not be repeated in the future. it should be noted that the treaty of lisbon makes the ecb an eu institution, thus increasing the responsibility of the european parliament, since it is the institution through which the ecb is accountable to european citizens.
in writing. other the european council of 25 and 26 march decided on matters which will have a considerable impact on the lives of millions of europeans, especially those who share the euro. at a time when the economic crisis was still very acute in countries such as greece, the heads of state of the euro zone reached agreement on a plan for financial assistance to that country. by committing to granting bilateral loans to greece if it fails to repair its public finances in other ways, including through imf intervention, these member states have demonstrated solidarity and determination to strengthen the stability and credibility of the currency. on the other hand, the new europe 2020 strategy will have to build on the previous lisbon strategy by showing citizens tangible results, especially in promoting employment, without further delaying structural reforms over the next 10 years. territorial cohesion should be an integral part of this strategy alongside other key themes such as the continued focus on knowledge and innovation, sustainable economic progress and social inclusion. the european union has formalised its support for this strategy and its member countries must be unmatched in their commitment to it.
we are facing a natural disaster of unforeseeable consequences. science allows us to calculate with reasonable accuracy the effect of particles in the atmosphere, in aircraft engines, in aircraft systems. science also allows us to calculate with a reasonable degree of accuracy the movement of these particles in the atmosphere. today eu transport ministers are meeting to decide how to deal with the air transport situation. the conclusions of this meeting should be based on scientific knowledge and the precautionary principle. the economy cannot take precedence over the safety of people. europe should continue to play the role of a bastion for the defence of security and the quality of life. we hope, however, that there will be rapid and pragmatic solutions to alternative transport systems, both by land and by sea. during the last year we have been confronted with several crises, natural disasters, epidemics, in the face of these facts ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i bring to this plenary session today the question of the budgetary situation of the various states. i am doing so at a time when the time has come to hand over the stability and growth programmes, when a forecast is being made of what the situation of the various states will be in the medium and long term. in the specific case of my country, portugal, the european commission has commented that the programme presented is a risky programme. it's a worrying signal for the markets, but it was fundamentally a signal that looked at stability, that looked at the health of public accounts, when it's also important that you look at the growth issue. and once again, the figures presented by my state are not satisfactory and concern about issues such as simplification for companies, the situation of tax competitiveness is unfortunately still lacking.
on behalf of the ppe group. i think it is right to congratulate our colleague, mr szájer, on his excellent report. the treaty of lisbon, as has been well said, strengthens the powers of the european parliament and introduces rules which strengthen democratic control. i therefore believe that this parliament deserves to be congratulated twice. i congratulate you not only on the excellent report by mr szájer, which i have already had the opportunity to mention, but also because this regulation puts an end to the old comitology system, which we have so often criticised in this parliament. we now have article 290 of the treaty of lisbon and i note in mr szájer's report a number of suggestions for forms of procedure which would limit the prerogatives of this parliament. parliament, with this new provision, can concentrate on the essential legislative acts, giving the commission flexibility to supplement, in non-essential legislative acts, within the limits defined by the legislator. and as mr leinen has already said, well, we are now on an equal footing with the council and therefore parliament is not in a position of inferiority. i would like to stress, madam president, certain aspects of mr szájer's report which i consider particularly important. first, the idea that we reject any provisions which impose on the legislator additional obligations beyond those contained in article 290. secondly, the recommendation to the european commission for the early and continuous transmission of the necessary information and documents. thirdly, the idea that the calculation of deadlines can only be done after all the language versions have been known, and i emphasize all the language versions. and finally, respect for the periods of suspension of the work of the european parliament.
mr president, of course this crisis was an unforeseen crisis and of course the precautionary principle had to take priority. but there are lessons to be learned, and the first is that for five days there has not been a sufficiently strong and politically responsible european voice. and that voice has been lacking in defending passengers' interests, clarifying their rights, seeking alternative transport and coordinating solutions. a second conclusion is that the way out of the crisis cannot appear to the ordinary citizen to be a game of strength between those who want to avoid damage and those who want to uphold the precautionary principle. there must be clear transparency and objectivity about the conditions under which a situation of complete closure of the european space can be overcome. and therefore, the improvement of scientific testing and coordination also at the level of... (the president cut the speaker off)
the title of the programme we are discussing today is: the time for action has come. when it took five days to organise a videoconference between union ministers, i can only praise your sense of humour, dr durão barroso. but why is it really time to act? why is there no action so far and the title is self-criticism? or is it because this title, like all the other titles of our bureaucratic communications, is a handful of nothing behind a pile of words? i'll give you an example. we are in the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, although the poor are not aware of it. the paper talks about an initiative quote to ensure a broad distribution of the benefits of growth and employment. is this another joke? what is this initiative and how can it compensate for the withdrawal of social aid that the states are making in the name of stability programmes? how does the commission intend to distribute the benefits of what does not exist, economic growth? how do you want to reduce the number of poor without touching the profits of the rich and the very rich? our disagreement with you is about politics. the return to the dictatorship of the deficit imprisons economies, cuts wages, cuts benefits and forces public investment to retreat. this is the recipe for more unemployment. although the time has come to act, the commission believes that the union has managed to join forces to deal with the crisis. ask the greeks if they have that opinion, if we were quick, if we were fair. when does the european rating agency? ask the portuguese, whose interest on their debt rises every time a commissioner decides to talk about the economy. ask the europeans. ask the europeans why this is the way it is, and they, looking at the messenger, will end up smiling, because after all, a sense of humor doesn't pay taxes.
the debate on the commission's programme is of particular importance as it marks the beginning of a new era for the european union. the need to adopt measures capable of meeting long-term challenges in a crisis context makes it imperative to prioritise such issues as job creation, financial market regulation and the stabilisation of the euro, which should restore the confidence of citizens and economic and social actors. i would like to stress the importance of cohesion policy in the pursuit of the various european policies. only through a cohesion policy with visibility in its results, respect for the principle of subsidiarity and governance at various levels - national, regional and local - will it be possible for europe's regions to achieve sustainable and integrated growth. the objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion should guide the union's actions and be achieved through adequate community funding, with greater transparency, simplicity and efficiency in the use of the structural funds. it is urgent to define the cohesion policy guidelines and the financial perspective for the period after 2013. i would like to draw attention to the situation of the outermost regions, whose permanent structural characteristics present obstacles which seriously affect their economic development and which therefore require specific measures.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i should like to begin by congratulating mr kirilov, even in his forced absence, and to highlight the way in which he has been able to draw up this important report, facilitating the main objective. i would also like to congratulate mrs krehl on her presentation. the main objective is to simplify procedures and speed up the implementation of programmes financed by the cohesion fund, the structural funds and the regional development fund. in the context of the current financial, economic and social crisis, pressure on national financial resources has been increasing. this pressure will be reduced by better use of community funding, by the faster delivery of this to the beneficiaries most affected by the economic downturn. more than 20 million europeans are unemployed, 4 million more than a year ago, and unfortunately the trend is increasing. this situation requires that the proper implementation of cohesion programmes be ensured, since they represent a more powerful and relevant lever for helping the real economy, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and employment. smes are the engine of the european economy and the agents of sustainable growth and generators of jobs in quantity and quality. the further simplification and clarification of the rules governing cohesion policy will undeniably have a positive impact on the pace of programme implementation, particularly as national, regional and local authorities will be able to rely on clearer and less bureaucratic rules, which will allow more flexibility in adapting programmes to new challenges.
in writing. in recent months, prices have fallen in several agricultural markets as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis affecting the eu, which in turn has affected demand for these products. the fall in prices benefits consumers and will lead to increased demand in the medium term, but in the meantime many producers are being seriously affected. the european agricultural policy must therefore be defined in a way that responds to the key question: the need to ensure food security in a sustainable way at reasonable market prices. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the cap, although market-oriented, must contain a set of instruments to deal with the need to compensate for the production of public goods for which the market does not pay; to control the extreme volatility of the market; to ensure that the cap is not a one-off event, but a one-off event. it must have proper regulation, a strong safety net, and sound risk management. it should also improve the food supply chain through greater transparency and improved contractual practices that are not detrimental to producers. finally, it is essential to ensure equal treatment for imported agricultural products and materials.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported in this parliament the agreement between the european union and the united states on mutual legal assistance. i did so because i consider transatlantic cooperation in general and particularly in the area of freedom, security and justice to be very important. at the plenary session on 11 february i voted against the provisional agreement on the transfer of financial data concluded between the european union and the united states of america. i did so in the name of the prerogatives of the european parliament, but also because the agreement was unacceptable. in this debate i referred to the principles of necessity and proportionality, as well as the integrity and security of european financial data. i welcome this new turn of events in the new approach of the commission and the council to cooperation with parliament. i believe that together we will be able to establish the basic principles which should guide and facilitate future cooperation between the european union and the united states of america in the fight against terrorism. i hope that in this new agreement the concerns expressed by parliament in its resolution of september 2009 will be duly addressed. i reiterate the need for absolute respect for the principles of necessity, proportionality and reciprocity. i would stress that the basic safeguards for the retention of such data should be safeguarded for the minimum necessary period of time, after which they should be deleted. i would remind you of the need for legal recourse and the establishment of appropriate safeguards for any transfers of personal data to third countries and, above all, the lack of evidence that such data are useful for the prevention or prosecution of any act of terrorism. it is not possible to obtain our consent outside this framework. the european parliament will be consistent with the positions it has always held.
we have expressed our concern about the transfer of pnr data to the united states of america. this data can be retained for years after security checks have been made and there is no legal protection for anyone who is not a us citizen. the agreements we have concluded with both australia and canada have always been more acceptable, with better respect for the principle of proportionality, limited access in terms of scope, time and number of data, and control by a judicial authority. i agree that general principles and rules should be established as a basis for concluding any agreements with third countries. it is also true that we will see a flood of similar requests from other states with more worrying traditions in data protection and respect for human rights. and if we want genuine reciprocity, we will have to look at creating a single system for the european union involving europol in all this. mr president, commissioner, in my view any agreement will only be acceptable if it guarantees an adequate level of data protection, respecting the principle of necessity and proportionality and the community rules in force. it is also essential to ensure that only the 'push' method is used, i.e. that the data is provided by us and is not automatically absorbed by third-country entities to whom access to our databases is given. i therefore support the joint proposal by rapporteur sophia in 't veld and the political groups to postpone the vote on parliament's consent in order to allow more time for the negotiations to meet the concerns we have expressed here.
mr president, i just think that it is important to… (interjection from the floor)i would like not to be disturbed by colleagues on the extreme right, please. i think that they would also like to be informed on this issue – the issue is whether or not to transfer bulk data to the united states; that is the issue in amendment 8. we have been discussing whether we are against or for the position, but it is good to know.
in writing. − administrative cooperation between member states in the fight against fraud and economic crime is of paramount importance for reasons of fairness and justice, and because of the enormous impact on the economic situation of the countries. in the field of vat, where there are numerous cases of fraud, it is essential that there is a legal framework with strong measures that lead to a further reduction of such cases. greater cooperation between central administrations is desirable, through the sharing of information, provided that individual privacy is respected, of complete databases, and of well-trained staff for the detection and treatment of such cases. member states should implement the instruments provided for by the european union as quickly as possible in order to create a more transparent and effective system for combating tax fraud.
in writing. − the distortions caused by vat fraud affect the overall balance of the own resources system, which must be fair and transparent to ensure the proper functioning of the union. since public authorities are obliged to make up the corresponding revenue shortfall, the increase in fraud translates into a higher tax burden on companies that comply with tax rules. although investigations into the extent of vat evasion and fraud have not been carried out in all member states, the international vat association estimates that vat losses range from eur 60 to eur 100 billion per year across the european union. greater cooperation between central administrations through information sharing, with respect for individual privacy, is desirable. member states should implement the instruments provided for by the european union as quickly as possible in order to create a more transparent and effective system for combating tax fraud.
in writing. - the fight against tax fraud, particularly in the area of vat, must be a priority for the eu. it is in this context that we advocate a policy to combat fraud, which is transversal to all the member states, in particular through exchanges of information. it is stressed that tax fraud is one of the main causes of injustice within the eu, as it leads to unfair competition and an unbalanced market.
in writing. - greater integration of the internal market and reduction of unjustified costs for businesses through an exercise in simplification and reduction of administrative barriers should be objectives to be taken into account in the preparation of community legislation. the directive, which aims to establish a common system of invoicing for vat, is therefore essential to achieving these objectives. i believe in particular that the traditional invoicing method should be replaced by electronic invoicing, which is faster and less costly for businesses and individuals, provided that the principle of transparency is respected.
in writing. the directive aims to establish a common invoicing system for vat, which is essential to achieve greater integration of the internal market and to reduce unjustified costs for businesses through an exercise in simplification and reduction of administrative barriers. i consider that this directive is a positive step towards providing clarity and legal certainty for taxable persons and administrations, while at the same time strengthening the means available in the field of combating vat fraud.
in writing. - a common system of value added tax with regard to invoicing rules is essential for the simplification, modernisation and harmonisation of vat invoicing rules. this new system also brings important savings to businesses which in this crisis scenario is of paramount importance. the adoption of this report is also another step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. this report provides a comprehensive analysis of the budgetary situation of the ecj, drawing attention to some important issues that need to be reviewed, such as the need to improve the award procedures in order to help the budgetary authorities' departments to organise calls for tenders and to monitor compliance with regulatory obligations. i welcome the fact that the eca has adopted the practice of including in its activity report a chapter describing the follow-up given during the year to previous parliament discharge decisions and to the reports of the court of auditors.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. that is why i voted in favour of the court's report.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of the way in which the public funds put at their disposal have been used. i am pleased to see that an external body, pricewaterhousecoopers, audited the accounts of the tc and concluded that 'nothing has come to our attention that would suggest that in all material respects and on the basis of the criteria described above: (a) the resources allocated to the court have not been used for their intended purpose; and (b) the control procedures in place do not provide the necessary guarantees to ensure compliance of financial transactions with the applicable rules and regulations'. i also note with appreciation that the committee on budgets has included a chapter to accompany the follow-up given during the year to parliament's previous discharge decisions.
in writing. - the court of auditors, as the main body responsible for the supervision of all the european institutions, must also be subject to supervision. it is noted that the audit carried out by an external body, pricewaterhousecoopers , was largely positive. the internal audit report was also positive, with most of its recommendations accepted and applied in advance in several action plans.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors, in its annual report, reveals that the audit did not raise any significant observations with regard to the ombudsman. it notes, however, that some aspects of competition procedures could be improved. i join the rapporteur in welcoming the ombudsman's decision to publish his annual declaration of interests and to make it available on the internet. i agree with the rapporteur when he urges the ombudsman to include in his next activity report (for the financial year 2009) a chapter with detailed information on the follow-up given in that financial year to previous parliament discharge decisions.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the european ombudsman's report is appropriate.
in writing. − i believe that accountability of public officials to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an account of how public funds have been used, in an objective and rigorous way. i agree with the rapporteur that he has assessed positively the efforts made to strengthen the management of financial and human resources and the improvement in the functionality and efficiency of internal control functions in 2008. i also note with satisfaction the annual publication of the declarations of financial interests of the elected members of the edps, with relevant information on posts and remunerated activities or professional activities subject to declaration. this is essential to build public confidence in public office holders. i agree with the rapporteur when he urges the edps to include in his next activity report (for the financial year 2009) a chapter with detailed information on the follow-up given in that financial year to the previous discharge decisions of parliament.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european data protection supervisor is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurances that the accounts of the euctad are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. as regards the activities carried out by the euctad, the court of auditors found that there is some inaccuracy in the forecasts of the translation requests received, which leads to the euctad reporting accumulated budgetary surpluses, contrary to regulation (ec) no 2965/94. this situation should therefore be corrected. i agree with the rapporteur that she regrets that the dispute between the euct and the commission regarding the employer's share of contributions to the pension scheme has not yet been resolved.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i vote in favour of the report by the translation centre for the bodies of the european union.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors in its report considers that the annual accounts of cedfp for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. this represents a major step forward for the cedefop in its inventory procedure for the identification, registration and capitalisation of assets, in the documentation of internal control processes and in the procedures for awarding public contracts. however, there is a stagnation in staff management, as objectives and performance indicators have not been result-oriented or measurable. i do, however, support the rapporteur in her view that it is very positive that cedfp intends to introduce, in 2010, an experimental system for recording the working hours of each staff member.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of the report by the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors in its report considers that the annual accounts of the accp for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i note with concern the court of auditors' observation that the acp does not draw up a multiannual work programme, which is essential for effective financial management and the clear definition of objectives. i therefore welcome the desire expressed by the management board to start drawing up such a programme. this programming will be essential to improve the budgetary and financial management of the acp, which, although approved by the court of auditors, still has some shortcomings that need to be addressed. like the rapporteur, i believe that an important tool to be introduced will be mechanisms for effective management of staff working time, with a strict definition of the number of hours recommended for each project.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the community fisheries control agency is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. i cannot help but note that the court of auditors points out that none of the formal conditions required to grant an international organisation a grant of eur 1 399 132 (0.31% of the available operating budget) directly were met in the case in question. i support the rapporteur in his regret that the aer, which was functioning efficiently, has been closed down and that the management of the funds has been transferred to the delegations; calls on the commission to submit a report specifying the number of staff recruited in the delegations to carry out the tasks of the era; calls on the commission to provide comprehensive and complete information on whether budget support has been granted under the funds transferred from the erf to the delegations.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european agency for reconstruction is appropriate.
in writing. − i believe that accountability of public officials to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used, in an objective and rigorous manner. the court of auditors in its report considers that the annual accounts of easa for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, noting a clear evolution compared to previous years, and an effort to implement the measures suggested in the past, both by the court of auditors and by the internal audit service. the rapporteur stresses, however, that the mechanisms for setting easa's objectives should be strengthened to make it easier to evaluate their implementation, and that a new methodology for staff management should be introduced, from recruitment to performance evaluation.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european aviation safety agency is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurances that the accounts of the ecdc are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. it is worth noting that the ecdc has consolidated its public health functions, strengthened the capacity of its disease-specific programmes, made progress in developing partnerships and improved its management structures. however, i regret that the edps did not fully comply with its obligation to send the discharge authority a report prepared by its director summarising the number of internal audits carried out by the internal auditor.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european centre for disease prevention and control is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurances that aepq's accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the efsa plays a role that the commission is not in a position to assume and is fully aligned with the strategic priorities of the union and its activities are complementary to those of other agencies. notes that the court of auditors notes delays in operational activities due to difficulties in the implementation of the it system and the lack of qualified staff;
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european chemicals agency is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors in its report finds that the annual accounts of the eea for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i congratulate the eea on the external evaluation of eu decentralised agencies, commissioned by the commission in 2009, which produced very positive findings, in particular for having established a well-designed activity-based management system, a multiannual work programme, a forward-looking scoreboard with indicators, and an integrated management and control system, all of which contribute to efficient management.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european environment agency is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors in its report describes the annual accounts of easa for the financial year 2008 as reliable and the underlying transactions as legal and regular and the authority has achieved a high degree of budget implementation in both commitment and payment appropriations (97% and 95% respectively). however, it should be noted that some shortcomings previously identified by the court of auditors remain and are becoming recurrent, in particular as regards the carry-over of appropriations for the following financial year and the cancellation of appropriations for operational activities carried over from the previous financial year. this situation, which is contrary to the principle of annuality, reveals the inadequacy of the programming and budgeting procedures, which must be overcome. it is, however, very positive that aese has managed to improve substantially and consistently in recent years its performance indicators.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european food safety authority is appropriate.
in writing. − i believe that the accountability of public officials to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used, in an objective and rigorous manner. the court of auditors in its report considers that the annual accounts of the emcdda for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. like the rapporteur, i believe that the emcdda should define precisely in its annual programming the objectives it is seeking to achieve, in order to facilitate the annual evaluation of its performance. it should also include staff management mechanisms to make it more effective, for example by introducing hourly targets for staff and the definition of the average time to be used by staff for each project.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurances that the emea's accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i join the rapporteur in congratulating the emea for creating a sophisticated activity-based budgeting and customer satisfaction-oriented control. the emea should, however, improve the quality of its tendering procedures in order to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors (such as the application of evaluation methods with regard to pricing criteria and the essential justification for the choice of procedures).
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european medicines agency is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors expresses its opinion that there is evidence that the accounts of esma are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, this agency does not present a multiannual work programme and its annual work programme does not correspond to the budget. however, esma is finalising a five-year strategy and developing key performance indicators, which should be submitted to parliament for scrutiny. the report also points out that the budgetary procedures were not sufficiently rigorous, leading to a high number of budgetary transfers and a high rate of cancellation of payment appropriations, revealing shortcomings in planning and monitoring. however, this may have been a one-off situation due to the move of esma to its permanent premises.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european maritime safety agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i believe that the accountability of public officials to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used, in an objective and rigorous manner. the court of auditors in its report considers that aesri's annual accounts for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, although it points to shortcomings in the procurement procedures, in particular with regard to the underestimation of the budgets of the framework contracts, which ultimately constitutes a barrier to free competition. these shortcomings must therefore be overcome. given the importance of electronic information networks, aesri's work in improving the robustness of european electronic communications networks and in developing and maintaining cooperation with member states should be commended.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the report by the european network and information security agency.
in writing. − i believe that accountability of public officials to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an account of how public funds have been used, in an objective and rigorous way. the court of auditors in its report considers that the annual accounts of afe for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, the court of auditors notes that the tfa reveals weaknesses in the definition of objectives and performance indicators, as well as problems in the procurement processes. in view of the increased scrutiny of the activity of public entities, it is urgent that the tfa takes appropriate measures to overcome these problems. finally, i congratulate afe on having implemented 32 of the 36 recommendations issued by the internal audit service (ias) since 2006. however, of the four recommendations still outstanding, one is essential and three are very important, so i urge the agency to apply internal control rules on bank signatures, separation of functions, sensitive seats and the maintenance of delegation powers, as mentioned in those recommendations.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european railway agency is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors in its report considers that the annual accounts of the fef for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. it should be noted, however, that fef stated that it had carried out a thorough review of its recruitment procedures in response to the court of auditors' observations, which, however, had not yet been brought to our attention. finally, it should be noted that in 2008, the fef's work in support of the european commission achieved a 97% satisfaction rate for this institution.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of the report by the european training foundation.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurances that aesst's accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. over the past three years, aesst has made very positive progress in improving its financial management, which is to be welcomed, and should continue to strive to achieve the highest standards in budgetary planning, implementation and control. however, some irregularities remain, notably concerning award procedures, which should be resolved.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the agency for safety at work is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurances that the accounts of the eea are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. it should be noted that in 2008 the aae did not receive any grant to finance its operational activities and that the commission has assumed all the expenditure incurred by the aae for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2008; notes also that the carry-over commitments for 2007 were paid with the unused part of the grant for that year. for this reason, and for all intents and purposes, in the absence of an autonomous budget, the agency is de facto integrated into the commission, which may raise questions concerning its structure and autonomy which may be examined in the future.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the euratom supply agency is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. after weaknesses in the recruitment and award procedures were detected in the previous year, the court of auditors considers that the femcvt's annual accounts for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. this represents an improvement in the management of femcvt's accounts and its internal audit mechanisms, which is to be welcomed. in view of the importance of this agency, i hope that it will continue its budgetary efforts by improving its human resources management processes and by transparently recording the establishment plan, including contract staff, in the annual report.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. despite the court of auditors' opinion that eurojust's accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i note with concern the rapporteur's assessment that 'the lack of indicators, the shortcomings in assessing user satisfaction and the lack of coordination between the budget and the work programme make it difficult to assess eurojust's performance'. i also take note of the court of auditors' conclusion that eurojust experienced a problem of transition of appropriations in 2008, albeit less than in the previous year, and that measures are needed to prevent such a situation from recurring in the future. finally, i share the rapporteur's concern that none of the 26 recommendations made by the internal audit service (ias) has been fully implemented by eurojust.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the eurojust report is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. i congratulate the agency on its efforts to eliminate the shortcomings previously identified by both the court of auditors and the internal audit service. the introduction of measures to improve performance evaluation is particularly noteworthy and such efforts should be further developed.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this spirit that i vote in favour of the report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section vii committee of the regions.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors in its report considers that the annual accounts of frontex for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. we note that the agency's budget has increased considerably over the last three years, increasing by 69% in 2008. however, the court of auditors has consistently found a number of shortcomings, including (i) a high level of transitions and cancellations (49% of the appropriations available for 2008 were not used during the year, compared with almost 69% in 2007 and 55% in 2006), (ii) legal commitments made before the corresponding budget commitments, and (iii) recruitment processes that depart from the rules with regard to transparency and non-discrimination.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. that is why i voted in favour of the frontex report.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. i note with concern that, according to the rapporteur, the authority decided to present the results of its activities without taking into account that it would no longer be responsible for the management of the galileo and egnos programmes once the transfer of assets and funds to the commission, scheduled for the end of the first quarter of 2008, was completed. i also regret that the court of auditors expressed reservations in its statement on the reliability of the 2008 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european gnss supervisory authority is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors in its report qualifies the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2008 as reliable and the underlying transactions as legal and regular. it should be noted that the court of auditors identified a surplus of eur 57.600.000 in the profit and loss account, representing 38% of the added revenue, and part of this surplus was carried over to the 2009 financial year. this can be attributed to the fact that the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is in a start-up phase and has not fully planned its internal controls and financial information system during the financial year 2008.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the report by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors has obtained sufficient guarantees that sesar's accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, i cannot fail to note, as the rapporteur does, that the final budget adopted by the management board in april 2008 proved to be very unrealistic, as is shown by the utilization rates of commitment and payment appropriations, which were respectively 1% and 17%. i would also point out that there are shortcomings in the control of operations and that there are no effective control mechanisms, even in the award of contracts. i think it is essential that sesar should proceed properly to resolve the problems now identified in the next financial year.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the sesar joint undertaking report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on transportable pressure equipment which will repeal the current directive in force as well as a number of other related directives. given that the current directive contains technical provisions which are contrary to international standards on the transport of dangerous goods, it is essential to eliminate inconsistencies and bring the technical requirements into line with international rules.
in writing. − the transport of pressure equipment, in particular tanks, containers and bottles, is currently governed by directive 1999/36/ec, which lays down safety requirements for road and rail transport and sets common standards for the design, construction and subsequent inspection of such equipment. these rules, however, are in breach of international standards for the transport of dangerous goods, which is why the commission has put forward its proposal for a revision of the above-mentioned directive. this proposal does not represent any substantial change to the current regulatory framework either in terms of scope or in terms of the main provisions, but is intended only to eliminate these inconsistencies by bringing the technical requirements for the transport of dangerous goods into line with the international rules in force. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that, in the absence of a horizontal solution between the institutions on the content of the new provisions on comitology, this procedure should be concluded as soon as possible with an agreement at first reading.
in writing. − the transport of pressure equipment, including tanks, containers and bottles, is currently governed by directive 1999/36/ec. the directive ensures the free movement of such equipment within the community, including its placing on the market, by establishing common standards for the design, construction and subsequent inspection of such equipment. but some of the technical provisions of the current directive are contrary to international standards for the transport of dangerous goods. the commission has therefore put forward a proposal for a revision of the directive, which will repeal the current directive on transportable pressure equipment, as well as a number of other related directives. on the basis of the above, i voted in favour of this resolution, which asks the committee to approve the report without further amendments and to instruct the rapporteur to enter into negotiations with the council.
in writing. - increasing concern for ecological and environmental protection issues leads us to take extra care with safety rules for the transport of pressure equipment. the directive aims to enhance safety and ensure the free movement of pressure equipment in the eu by defining in a clear and transparent way the rules that must be complied with to ensure the safety of the transport of pressure equipment in all member states, by harmonising procedures across the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on safety charges in the aviation sector. this proposal is of great importance in defending and protecting the rights of consumers and passengers, since it lays down a series of basic principles which must be respected by airport operators in determining their security rates. these are: non-discrimination, consultation and redress, transparency of costs and cost-relatedness of security fees, and the creation of a supervisory authority.
in writing. the european commission has put forward a proposal setting out the basic principles to be followed by airport operators in determining their security charges: (i) non-discrimination; (ii) consultation and redress; (iii) transparency of costs and the relationship with security charges; and (iv) the creation of a supervisory authority. the main question arising in this connection is the financing of the more restrictive security measures which must be implemented. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the financing of security charges to be regulated, but without success. the rapporteur rightly argues that the financing of these more restrictive measures cannot be borne solely by passengers (by outsourcing the costs) but must be financed by the states, which are ultimately responsible for the security of their airports. finally, i would remind you that it is never too late to invest in the safety of airports and passengers, as the recent attempts, fortunately foiled, to carry out terrorist attacks against civil aviation have shown.
in writing. - the european parliament has repeatedly called for the financing of security charges to be regulated in order to increase transparency and to ensure that taxes and security charges are used for their real purposes, but in vain. it has also considered that member states should bear the costs of applying more restrictive measures. the terrorist incident of a few weeks ago has once again demonstrated that airport security is the responsibility of the states and that the existing security measures, as well as those recently planned, are aimed at preventing acts of terrorism. however, what has so far been omitted in the context of the debate is the fact that the measures in question are ultimately paid for by the passengers. i agree with the amendments introduced by this resolution which will avoid parallel procedures and unnecessary administrative costs in this area.
in writing. − increasing security at airports has brought additional costs which have been borne by passengers. the additional costs of the more restrictive security measures have to be borne by the states, because they exist to prevent terrorist acts. however, it has been found that the costs of these measures are being borne by passengers. it is against this background that the vote in favour of this report is justified.
in writing. - the european parliament has already called on the commission on several occasions to regulate the financing of safety fees in the aviation sector. the commission has always advocated greater transparency and the allocation of taxes and security charges to their real purposes, considering that member states should bear the costs of applying more restrictive measures. although the commission in its proposal did not address this issue, seeking only a new economic impact assessment with a view to reducing costs, based on the principles of non-discrimination, consultation and redress and transparency of costs, this document aims to finance more restrictive measures, when they cause additional costs, by the state. i stress the importance of airport security measures and i vote in favour of this parliament's initiative. the proposal, which will apply to all commercial airports in the european union, is intrinsically linked to concerns about the right to information, non-discrimination of passengers and consumer protection. i believe that only by harmonizing legislation and clarifying the responsibility of airlines and member states for the adoption of safety measures will the objectives of greater transparency and avoidance of unnecessary costs be achieved.
in writing. - the proposal is a proposal from the european commission which is nothing more than the codification of previous rules and regulations. detailed amendments are also made. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the council's proposal is implemented.
in writing. - the proposal is, from a technical point of view, a proposal for the codification of the legal text. however, the commission was forced to reword the text, as it contains minor amendments to the annex. i voted in favour of adopting the amendments.
in writing. the development of the transeuropean transport network has been changing and redefining over the last few years. an effective trans-european transport network is essential for a healthy internal market and contributes to strengthening economic and social cohesion. the icelandic volcano phenomenon has unequivocally demonstrated the need for an effective transeuropean transport network which can respond in a coordinated manner to the problems arising in these situations. this decision is important because it provides guidance on the objectives, priorities and broad lines of action in the field of the transeuropean transport network.
in writing. - as regards national priorities in the context of the trans-european transport network, i believe it is important to focus not only on rail but also on motorways and on the interoperability and co-operability of the various modes of transport. only a genuine combined transport network, backed up by effective management, can make the maritime alternative, which is essential for our country, which benefits from privileged access to waterways, and is truly crucial for island and outermost regions such as madeira, competitive. it is also a key tool for the further completion of the internal market and for territorial cohesion. the adoption of this report by the plenary, which was unanimously adopted by parliament, the commission and the council, and which is very technical, follows the virtually unanimous indication of the committee on transport and tourism. in short, this proposal, which i myself supported, does not change the content of the text of the transeuropean transport network, adding only the maps of the 12 member states which joined the european union in 2004 and 2007. the revision of the community guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network is in preparation and should not be known before the end of 2010.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in the face of the current crisis it is necessary to find mechanisms for speeding up the implementation of aid programmes, thus allowing greater use of community funding, particularly for citizens, in particular the unemployed. the proposal aims at some regulatory changes to simplify the rules for implementing cohesion policy and to increase pre-financing (advance payments) for erdf and esf programmes. economic forecasts foresee a sharp decline in growth in the european union - 1.1% in 2010; in this context, this report is presented as a contribution to the response to the financial crisis and its socioeconomic repercussions. in this sense i consider it very important for greater transparency and simplification of the rules governing cohesion policy. this contribution will have a positive impact on the pace of programme implementation, particularly as it will give national, regional and local authorities the possibility of using clearer and less bureaucratic rules, which will allow more flexibility in adapting programmes to new challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund as regards the simplification of certain requirements and certain provisions relating to financial management. the unprecedented and severe impact of the current economic and financial crisis on member states' budgets requires simplification of the management of cohesion policy and an increase in advance payments. despite the difficult economic situation, these measures will allow a regular cash flow to be maintained to guarantee payments to beneficiaries during the implementation of these programmes.
in writing. - i consider community cohesion policy to be a central issue for the development and implementation of the principle of solidarity between member states advocated by the european union. as such, and particularly in times of crisis - when these funds can help to reduce, in particular, the impact on the regions most in need - it is essential to improve the current structure of cohesion policy so that funds can be delivered more efficiently, with more effective results and in a timely manner. on the other hand, more flexibility is needed in the instruments, since rigid instruments, unable to adapt to unforeseeable circumstances such as a crisis, are detrimental to the eu's economic development. it must also be ensured that the funds made available under cohesion policy are being properly used by the member states and that the available resources are spent efficiently. to this end, i believe it is essential to rethink not only the structure of the union's cohesion policy, but also the available control mechanisms and the existence of coercive means available in the event of non-compliance by the member states.
in writing. the aim of this proposal is to provide an additional economic incentive to certain member states which have been hard hit by the economic crisis. it was submitted following the european economic recovery plan, in the context of which the provisions implementing the basic regulation, as mentioned above, had already been amended in 2009 to allow for more flexibility in advance payments. the main element of the commission proposal is to deal with the consequences of the financial crisis, so the proposed solution was to introduce a temporary option so that member states experiencing severe cash flow difficulties could request a 100% reimbursement of the funding of labour market measures under the esf, i.e. a derogation from the co-financing principle. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has entailed a change in the legislative procedure. instead of the 'yes' or 'no' vote, parliament now has full powers to decide on the content of the text under the ordinary legislative procedure. i voted in favour of this and it is now expected that the commission will present the corresponding amending budget proposal for consideration and approval by the budgetary authority.
in writing. − the commission proposal introduces a temporary option, which member states in severe cash-flow difficulties could use to finance the necessary measures to promote growth and employment to combat the crisis and which are eligible under the european social fund, which would allow them to request 100% reimbursement from the commission for 2009 and 2010, thus eliminating the need for national co-financing during this period. this is a measure we have been advocating, in order to enable the full use of community funds at a time when they are most needed. the council's position is not coincidental, however, and only points to the need for 'an additional prefinancing fraction for the member states most affected by the crisis'. the document to be voted on in the european parliament is alongside the council's position, which seems to us to be more ambiguous and less favourable to the member states most affected by the crisis. however, we consider that 'extending the deadline for calculating the automatic cancellation of annual budget commitments for the 2007 total annual contribution in order to improve the absorption of funds committed to certain operational programmes' is a positive aspect.
in writing. − simplifying access to the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund is essential to supporting the member states most affected by the economic crisis. as the real impact of the financial crisis on the real economy and the labour market becomes clear, measures are needed to improve access to union funding instruments. there needs to be a regular cash flow to facilitate payment to beneficiaries during the implementation of the programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i consider that this is a matter of great importance for portugal, and particularly for its outermost regions, which are more vulnerable to the crisis we are going through, as they feel its effects more intensely and take longer to overcome it. although i agree with the content of the report in general, i cannot help but point out the difficulties faced by regional and local authorities in securing the resources needed to meet their share of the funding for projects subsidized by community funds. it is with discouragement that i have seen the council block the possibility of increasing the community co-financing rate to 100%, even if only temporarily and as an advance which would be compensated in the last years of the programmes. the compromise solution, although not optimal, allows, exceptionally, for community funds for 2007, which have not been absorbed into slower-starting projects, to benefit from an extended period before being cancelled. we are all aware of the difficult choices facing families and businesses today and of the importance that measures such as those envisaged here can have in a desired rapid and sustained economic recovery.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty clearly assigns new responsibilities and powers to the ep. with its entry into force on 1 december 2009, many proposals which had been submitted by the commission on the basis of the treaties but were still pending on that date (at different stages of the legislative or non-legislative process) will be subject to changes. in some cases there will be differences in the decision-making process due to a significant extension of the application of the ordinary legislative procedure or the application of a new approval procedure with regard to the conclusion of international agreements; in other cases, there is only a change in the legal basis, and the commission intends to make a formal change in its 'omnibus' proposal. however, there are proposals (under the old third pillar) whose legal framework has been substantially amended and has therefore become obsolete and which should be replaced by new ones. as rapporteur for the initiative to create an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the schengen acquis, i would ask that a new proposal be submitted as soon as possible. i therefore support the ep's resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the consequences of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon for interinstitutional decision-making procedures. the entry into force of the new treaty requires a redefinition of the legal bases for a number of pending cases. the commission and the council must urgently promote the necessary changes in the light of the new regulatory framework.
in writing. - the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon not only required a new institutional arrangement and a new hierarchy of rules, but also a special caution about the decision-making processes under way at that time. these amendments have altered the legal basis and the procedures for the review, which fully justify their re-examination.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty gives the ep new responsibilities and powers. with its entry into force on 1 december 2009, many proposals which had been submitted by the commission on the basis of the treaties but which were still pending at that date will be subject to transformation. in some cases there will be differences in the decision-making process due to a significant extension of the application of the ordinary legislative procedure or the application of a new approval procedure with regard to the conclusion of international agreements; in other cases, there is only a change in the legal basis, and the commission intends to make a formal change in its 'omnibus' proposal. however, there are proposals (under the old third pillar) whose legal framework has been substantially amended and has therefore become obsolete and which should be replaced by new ones. i therefore vote in favour of the ep resolution.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty tackles the democratic deficit by strengthening the powers of the european and national parliaments. this is the new instrument which allows the legislator to delegate part of his powers to the european commission (article 290 tfeu), provided that it is an act of general scope which allows the supplementing or amending of parts of a legislative act which are not considered to be essential. it will thus allow for more rapid and simple filling of gaps or regulation or updating of more detailed aspects of a legislative act, avoiding overly complicated and lengthy legislative procedures which would have had negative consequences for citizens. the possibility of withdrawing the delegation at any time and the requirement for prior consent of the ep (and the council) before the entry into force of acts adopted by the commission under a delegation are both safeguarded. i support this innovation which should replace the so-called 'infamous' 'comitology' system, but it is now urgent to define how these delegations can be made, their scope, their purpose, the working methods to be used and the conditions under which control can be exercised by the legislator.
in writing. - the implementation of the lisbon treaty requires clarification of some of its rules, in particular those of a legal and procedural nature such as those relating to the legislative process, the hierarchies of rules and the powers of the institutions. article 290 (1) of the treaty provides that a legislative act may delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of the legislative act. it does so with special care and by imposing strong restrictions on its scope. nevertheless, it is important to densify the law as it is embodied in the treaty in order to avoid too disparate interpretations which would jeopardize the coherence of community law. if these acts are commonplace in the member states, the same cannot be said of the present ones. the legitimacy of the commission and the legitimacy of governments are not the same, and therefore the legislative delegation to the former should be used with greater care and diligence and with greater parsimony. i support the view that the use of delegation should make it possible to adopt simple and accessible legislation, thus contributing to legal certainty, the effectiveness of delegation and the control of the delegator.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon amended the old comitology system by referring to new legal instruments such as delegated and implementing acts. the new treaty gives the european parliament the role of co-legislator alongside the council. the possibility of delegating to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts supplementing legislative acts is a step towards placing the two institutions on an equal footing. this report aims to clarify the conditions under which the institution of the delegation of powers of the parliament and the council to the european commission, as provided for in article 290 tfeu, can take place. the document stresses the importance of the principle of the freedom of the legislator to delegate powers to the commission as a means of 'better lawmaking'. the report safeguards the need to avoid imposing on the legislator obligations other than those already enshrined in the treaty, and the legislator should enable the commission to exercise the delegated power effectively and to monitor its use properly. for the reasons mentioned above, and considering that the first priority must be to adapt the acquis in areas which, before the treaty of lisbon, were not subject to the codecision procedure, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the european commission has presented a communication on the strategic objectives and recommendations for community maritime transport policy up to 2018. the commission proposal covers a wide range of issues relating to community maritime transport policy, allowing the maritime transport sector's stakeholders a wide margin of manoeuvre and initiative to implement the strategic objectives and recommendations now set out. the main issues addressed by the commission proposal are (i) the value and competitive position of european shipping in a global market; (ii) employment opportunities in the maritime sector; (iii) the quality of european shipping; (iv) international cooperation; (v) european shipping as a component of the european economy and a driving force for economic integration; and (vi) europe's position as a world leader in maritime research and innovation. this matter, which is linked to portugal's geographical position and the strategic importance of the sea, is of fundamental interest to our country, and all efforts to build a 'maritime economy' deserve our support and commitment.
in writing. − the european maritime sector makes an unequivocal and vital contribution to the internal economy of the community and to the european transport system. the interests of the european maritime transport sector should therefore be given priority in the development of a general european transport policy. it should be understood that the european maritime sector operates and competes mainly in a global market. the shipping sector faces major environmental challenges. it is essential to substantially improve the environmental performance of seagoing vessels and the emissions of sox, nox, fine particulate matter and co2. in this connection i would stress the need to reach agreements at world level to combat the risk of flag changes for countries which are not entitled to participate. in the field of security, i would stress that member states are invited to implement the proposed security package quickly and correctly, in particular in relation to the paris memorandum (on risk-based inspections). this will prevent unnecessary inspections, increase the effectiveness of monitoring and reduce red tape for those subject to inspections.
in writing. - the adoption of this resolution sets out the objectives necessary for a community policy on maritime transport. this means of transport is gaining prominence, not least because it is environmentally friendly and has the potential to become even more efficient in this respect. the shipping sector is essential to the european economy, not only as a transport of passengers, raw materials, goods and energy products, but also as the core of a wide range of maritime activities, such as shipping, logistics, research, tourism, fisheries and aquaculture, to name just a few.
in writing. − maritime transport is undoubtedly a european competitive advantage, but there is still much to be done to promote intermodal and co-modality, including the repositioning of the sea route as a truly competitive alternative. the maritime industry faces a number of challenges which can be turned into real opportunities if we know how to take advantage of them by focusing on training young technicians who can fill the gap in the sector. technological development and the reduction of unnecessary red tape to attract investment in the port sector are also priorities. safer and cleaner shipping should be pursued, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and responding effectively to acts of piracy. the pressures threatening the positioning of the european maritime fleet, which mainly originate from state aid to the sector in third countries, must be managed within a framework to be developed within the wto. european infrastructure and port capacity deserve further development, as do the maritime motorways, which are so important for southern and peripheral countries such as portugal and for outermost regions such as madeira. the report we have adopted today broadly covers these guidelines and has therefore earned my support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on europeana next steps - which calls for greater involvement of all eu member states in making available contributions from their national libraries and cultural institutions, in order to enable all europeans to have full access to their own cultural heritage. the aim of storing more than 15 million works on the site in the short term could help to protect europe's cultural heritage, in order to offer future generations the possibility of building a european collective memory.
in writing. - even in the periods when the division and even hostility between the states of the continent was most pronounced, european culture and science have always been able to overcome these limits and to spread throughout the area which today comprises the union and even beyond. in this connection, it is only right to highlight the role of the universities which, having their origins in religion, made a decisive contribution to reconnecting the disadvantaged parts of what became the christian republic, and to remember all those who were able to bridge the divisions and assert their thought throughout the continent and, hence, the world. as a portuguese, heir to a language and culture that have spread throughout the world, i cannot but support the efforts being made to make european culture and science more visible and accessible to all who want to enjoy them. europeana is thus the heir to the best european tradition. i hope that the project will continue in a sustained manner and that my country, in respect of its universalist vocation, will contribute to it with new commitment.
in writing. − europeana was launched in november 2008 and aims to provide universal access to europe's cultural and scientific heritage via the internet. it currently offers 6 million digitized works and aims to reach 10 million objects by june 2010. the second phase of the project will be marked by the launch in 2011 of a more multilingual europeana.eu with more semantic web pages. only 5% of all digitised books are available on europeana, and of these, about half come from france, followed by germany (16%), the netherlands (8%) and the united kingdom (8%). the other states have a contribution of 5% or less. greater contribution by member states is desirable i support the call for europeana's holdings to reach a minimum of 15 million different digitized objects by 2015. i agree that special attention should be paid to works which are in danger of disappearing in the near future, and among these, audiovisual material. it is also necessary to agree on ways of including copyrighted material so that current and recent works can be found.
in writing. − the creation of a digital library, museum and archive, covering europe's cultural heritage, from literary works to other material of cultural and scientific importance, could bring significant benefits in the fields of education, research and culture. in order to achieve the objective of benefiting the general public - by making the material available to everyone, not only in europe but also in the rest of the world - it is essential that europeana ensures free access to the material by the public, not forgetting the importance of making it available in formats and media that also ensure accessibility for people with disabilities. the resolution adopted contains, however, some aspects which are less clear and others which are not sufficiently developed. it is not clear how and by whom the cultural and scientific content of europeana will be defined, how it will be managed - important questions to assess to what extent it will ensure effective representation of the diversity of europe's cultural heritage. there are still doubts about how the public-private partnerships proposed in the report will work, and about the overall funding of the cultural institutions associated with europeana. we believe that cultural and scientific goods are universal goods, should be freely accessible to the whole population, and should not be treated as tradable goods.
in writing. − the dissemination of europe's cultural heritage benefits various sectors, including education, science, research, tourism, and others. however, there is a major deficiency in the dissemination of cultural heritage and a large discrepancy between member states in the digitisation of their cultural heritage so that it is easily accessible. a common effort is needed to rapidly adopt new technologies that will allow the rapid compilation of all european cultural heritage in high-quality digital format, so that it can be disseminated worldwide, thereby helping other peoples to have access to europe's cultural wealth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it calls on the european commission to evaluate the implementation of the current animal welfare action plan (2006-2010) and to draw up a new action plan for 2011-2015. the report also calls for a tighter control system and more effective penalties for owners of animals who do not comply with the welfare requirements laid down by law, for european farmers to be compensated for the additional production costs associated with higher welfare standards, and for the financing of these measures to be incorporated into the new cap aid schemes from 2013. the next action plan should focus on: general european legislation on animal protection, a european centre for the protection and welfare of animals, better control of the applicable legislation, the relationship between animal and public health and new technologies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the analysis and evaluation of the community action plan on animal welfare 2006-2010, which proposes to introduce a tighter control system and more effective sanctions for animal owners who do not comply with the welfare requirements laid down by law. it is essential to ensure that european farmers are compensated for the higher production costs associated with higher animal welfare standards in the new cap schemes.
in writing. - i agree with the epp shadow rapporteur elisabeth jeggle that a more coherent approach to animal welfare protection is needed, but that does not mean that more laws and regulations are needed. i can also say, without diminishing the importance of the protection of animal welfare, that too much regulation and too many rules to be followed can ultimately lead to harmful effects on the market. it should not be forgotten that the more standards there are, the more difficult it is for producers to comply with them and the less competitive european livestock farming becomes. in addition, excessive protection of animals must not lead to the neglect of other equally important values which must be preserved, such as economic competitiveness, the sustainability of agriculture and livestock farming and also some national traditions. on the other hand, however, human health must be protected against diseases transmitted by animals (whether wild, pet or used for human food), and for this scientific research must give us the indications for better regulation and protection of public health.
in writing. − a high level of animal welfare from rearing to slaughter promotes the safety and quality of products. european standards are among the most advanced in the world. however, european producers must not be put at a disadvantage on the european market by complying with these standards. in fact, these rules bring operating costs and financial and administrative burdens to eu farmers. in order to ensure fair competition, there must be reciprocity of standards with non-community producers. european farmers should therefore be compensated for the production costs associated with higher animal welfare standards. the financing of these compensations should be included in the new aid schemes of the common agricultural policy from 2013. it should be noted that european animal welfare policy must be accompanied by a coherent trade policy. it is noted that animal welfare issues were not addressed in the july 2004 framework agreement or in any other key wto doha round documents. therefore, no further animal welfare standards should be introduced which have negative effects on the competitiveness of producers as long as wto trading partners do not subscribe to these standards.
in writing. − the report adopted contains important positive aspects, such as: the need to regulate imports and ensure that all animals and meat imported from third countries meet the same welfare requirements as those applicable in the eu; the need to adequately cover the additional costs generated by promoting animal welfare; the recognition of the limited investment capacities of many small and medium-sized producers, hampered by an unfair functioning of the food supply chain; and the advocacy of incentives to breed, market and slaughter animals at regional level in order to avoid long-distance transport of animals, both from breeding and for slaughter. unfortunately, the report fails to recognise that the current cap promotes and favours intensive production models, often incompatible with animal welfare and health. it could and should have gone further, criticizing and rejecting the productivism of the present cap and advocating a different agricultural policy. it also makes proposals that are unrealistic and difficult to implement, such as the development of a satellite system for monitoring the transport of animals.
in writing. - we welcome the fact that europe has reached one of the highest levels in the world in this field. the creation of a tighter control system and more effective sanctions for owners of animals who do not comply with the welfare requirements laid down by law is essential, but as such measures imply additional costs for farmers, we are in favour of the compensatory aid provided for in this plan and which will be part of the new cap aid schemes from 2013. it should be noted that alongside this plan, the eu imposes strict and well-defined rules on other countries which do not comply with these rules and which therefore constitute unfair competition vis-à-vis eu farmers.
in writing. − the report voted on today objectively and critically assesses the results of the action plan for the protection of animal welfare 2006-2010 and sets out realistic and necessary priorities for growth, in the direction of progress, of food production and consumption in the european union. one point to be noted is the recognition that higher quality products imply higher costs for producers, especially primary producers, which do not usually translate into increased commercial demand, as only a minority of consumers will opt for more expensive products. the report thus emphasizes the need to compensate these same producers for the effort expended. the intention to impose on products from third countries the rules applicable to community products, ensuring fair and balanced commercial competitiveness, is also noteworthy. finally, i think it is important to support the idea of creating a european coordination centre and of adopting general and common legislation in order to harmonize good practice and establish control mechanisms.
in writing. − european agriculture contributes to the achievement of the union's climate change mitigation targets by 2020. ghg emissions have been declining as a result of more efficient eu agriculture, constant innovation and the use of new techniques such as soil storage of co2 and the development of sustainable renewable energy production. innovation therefore has an important role to play in reducing the impact of agriculture on climate change and in moderating its environmental consequences. i call for european money from the agricultural sector to be used to develop technologies for adapting the sector to combat climate change. the role of agriculture in the process of combating climate change must take into account the competitive position of the eu agri-food sector on the world market, and solutions must therefore be found to enable conventional agriculture to contribute to sustainable environmental management while protecting it from food speculation in the 'commodities' market and from international trade protectionism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eu agriculture and climate change because it presents concrete measures that can contribute to more sustainable agriculture. agriculture is one of the activities most affected by climate change, but it is also one of the most important contributors to co2 emissions. in the context of the future cap reform, the development of practices that allow european agriculture to better adapt to the consequences of climate change and, on the other hand, that can contribute to its mitigation should be encouraged.
in writing. - agriculture accounts for 9.3% of the european union's total co2 emissions, up from 11% in 1990. there has been a steady and progressive reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, with agriculture making a positive contribution to meeting the eu's emission reduction targets. i would also like to point out that although the environmental concerns in the agricultural sector are legitimate and necessary, they must be weighed against the impact of the proposals in terms of sustainability and agricultural productivity. the relationship between agriculture and environmental protection should therefore be carefully considered in the context of the reform of the cap, bearing in mind that, in addition to its negative impact on the environment (through, inter alia, co2 emissions), agriculture makes a decisive contribution to the conservation and management of natural resources, green growth and the management of the landscape and biodiversity. these are added values created by agriculture, which should be taken into account when it is proposed to study the relationship between agriculture and the environment.
in writing. − agriculture is directly involved in the issue of climate change as it contributes in part to the production of greenhouse gases while being affected by these changes. the negative impacts of these changes are already being felt, with drought and soil erosion being a major problem, especially in the southern member states. but agriculture can also contribute to combating climate change and has important potential for sustainable development. the cap should therefore encourage agricultural practices that limit emissions and/or improve carbon sequestration, as agriculture and forestry are the main economic sectors that are able to capture co2 from human activities by preserving and storing carbon in the soil. we need to move towards more sustainable agriculture, which requires greater efficiency, and we will have to increase world food production by 70 percent by 2050, according to fao, to cope with the increase in the world population. we will have to produce more but in a sustainable way, which requires greater efficiency, the adoption of the best techniques and practices and increased investment in scientific research in this area.
in writing. − consideration of the implications of climate change on agriculture is a relevant concern. the compatibility of agricultural activity with the preservation of a set of natural and cultural values such as soils, landscapes and biodiversity is also relevant, fully justified and necessary. however, these concerns should not make us forget that the main function of agriculture is food production, nor should they serve as a pretext for changes to the common agricultural policy which exacerbate the worrying and unacceptable food dependence of several countries, the eu - as is the case with portugal - and not only, threatening the food sovereignty and security of the peoples, in the name of an allegedly untouchable 'competitive position of the eu agri-food sector on the world market'. it would be important if this report devoted a few lines, if any, to the need to break with the productivist model which has shaped successive reforms of the cap and its disastrous social and environmental consequences. unfortunately, not a word about this. it would have been equally important to avoid any ambiguity at a time when we are faced with attempts by the european commission to impose the interests of multinational agribusiness companies on the spread of gmos.
in writing. - adaptation to climate change is becoming a reality that everyone will have to see as a priority in eu policy. the phenomenon of climate change is damaging agriculture, which according to recent reports points to a very unpromising scenario for this sector. it seems that the countries of southern europe will be the most affected by climate change. it is essential that the cap, through such changes, acts accordingly, encouraging better management of resources. optimising water resources, selecting varieties selected for their resistance to climate change and disease, protecting soils from erosion, preserving pastures, increasing reforestation, restoring degraded areas, improving forest management to limit fire risks and new disease surveillance and control measures are all very important measures to adapt european agriculture to the effects of warming. agriculture will increasingly depend on the state of the climate, and we therefore approve all measures to mitigate this serious problem.
in writing. − support for less-favoured rural areas is an essential element of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy (rural development policy), and it is natural that territories with natural or other handicaps should be the subject of specific instruments and policies. the commission proposes in this communication that, in accordance with article 50 (3) of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005, 'other less-favoured areas' be defined in accordance with objective criteria, proposing eight soil and climate criteria which, starting from a certain threshold value, indicate the existence of severe constraints for european agriculture: climatic criteria (long periods of low temperatures or heat), biophysical criteria (soils with poor drainage, stony, sandy or clay soils; shallow root depth; salt soils) and geographical criteria (areas with an unfavourable water balance or a high slope of the ground). this definition of objective criteria is positive, but these must be tested in the field to verify their reliability and adaptability to the specific cases and characteristics of each natural area. the possibility of a transitional period with a specific scheme for regions which lose their classification as less-favoured areas should also be considered.
in writing. − support for disadvantaged rural areas is an essential element of rural development policy. i am in favour of the allocation of adequate compensatory payments to less-favoured areas so that farmers can help to preserve the countryside and adopt sustainable agriculture that provides public goods such as landscapes, water and air quality, as well as the preservation of biodiversity. this support enables social and territorial cohesion by preserving rural areas and giving them a status of vital economic and natural area. the criteria for this report are 'other less-favoured areas affected by natural handicaps' under article 50 (3) (a) of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005. a committee of experts identified eight soil and climate criteria which, starting from a certain threshold value, indicate the existence of severe limitations for european agriculture. i agree that the geographical criterion, called 'isolation', must also be taken into account as it is a natural disadvantage. i hope that the member states will be able to apply objective biophysical criteria adapted to the conditions of their natural environment in order to designate areas with natural handicaps.
in writing. - it is positive that it is considered that zd payments should be linked to agricultural activity and that the application of solely biophysical criteria may not prove appropriate. we also value the inclusion of the geographical criterion isolation and cumulative use of the criteria adopted. however, these aspects are in contradiction with others included in the report, namely the definition of a 'transitional period' for adaptation to the new criteria, i.e. the tacit acceptance of the new criteria proposed by the commission. we strongly disagree with the idea that the new criteria should be reflected in the future development of the cap, as is also advocated there, by keeping this policy within the framework of rural development, with co-financing, that is to say, by maintaining another factor of discrimination between countries. the commission proposal, if implemented, will be highly detrimental to the interests of the southern countries, particularly portugal. we therefore stress the need to correct this proposal and to highlight and promote the use of socioeconomic criteria in conjunction with the group of biophysical criteria in the definition of the cap, such as gdp per capita, income per unit of family labour and desertification indicators.
in writing. − considering that more than half of the eu's agricultural area (54%) has the status of a lessfavoured area, either because of its orography, climatic conditions or less fertile land, and that such a measure is fundamental for rural development, we conclude that support for lessfavoured areas should be a priority for member states. in this way, the development of a global strategy for lessfavoured areas, adapted to the local needs of the different regions, will reduce the disparities between member states in the support they provide. the specific definition of areas with natural handicaps will thus enable adequate funds to be obtained for the exploitation of land and the improvement of agricultural production yields.
in writing. in this communication, the commission sought greater rigour and uniformity in the criteria for granting aid to farmers in areas with natural handicaps. the aim was to correct the heterogeneous application of compensatory allowances between member states due to differences in the classification of the so-called 'intermediate less-favoured areas'. such aid is crucial to preserve rural employment and communities, the continued use of agricultural land, as well as biodiversity and the cultural landscape. i am generally pleased with the report and especially with the opinion of the committee on regional development, which is trying to safeguard the interests of the outermost regions, since islands are excluded from the commission's communication. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it seems logical that, in identifying the intermediate less-favoured areas, member states should be able to take account not only of biophysical criteria but also of other criteria such as insularity and the outermost regions. it is also important to me that regions which lose their status as 'naturally disadvantaged areas' should be given a transitional period to allow them to absorb the impact of the loss of aid. it is now up to us to ensure that, in the overall reform of the cap, the new aid schemes for farmers are designed in a coherent way and that there is better coordination between agricultural policy and cohesion policy.
in writing. - one of the areas which has developed most in recent decades has been information and communication technologies, which are present in all areas of human life. in an environment of constant change and increasing competitiveness, icts can be a powerful tool in helping to achieve sustainable development and combat poverty and social and economic inequalities. each person must be provided with the necessary skills and high-speed, permanent access, and a clear legal framework is needed to protect the rights and provide the necessary confidence and security. o the report 'on a new digital agenda for europe:2015.eu', which i voted for, intends to cooperate with the commission in the preparation of the overall strategic proposal and action plan for 2015. to this end: all eu households should have access to competitive broadband internet by 2013; pay particular attention to rural areas affected by industrial transition, which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps, in particular the outermost regions; finally, it stresses the importance of guaranteeing disabled end-users access at a level equivalent to that available to other end-users.
in writing. - i support the excellent report by mrs pilar del castillo on the new digital agenda. i agree that europe must play a leading role in the creation and application of icts, generating added value for its citizens and businesses, and that it will only reap the benefits of this digital revolution if all eu citizens are mobilised and equipped to participate fully in the new digital society. i welcome the aim of having broadband to cover all eu citizens and the whole of the territory, including the outermost regions. i welcome the recommendation that the concept of digital literacy be introduced into education systems from preprimary education onwards, alongside foreign languages, with the aim of producing skilled users as early as possible. i stress the impact that the digitalisation of public services (e-government) can have for citizens and businesses to enable a more efficient and personalised delivery of public services; furthermore, significant gains in transparency and competition can be made through e-procurement systems (public procurement) with more supply, higher quality and lower prices.
in writing. - a 'digital agenda' is becoming increasingly important and more inescapable in our society. technological developments, especially in terms of the availability of information, content and knowledge on the net, have been extremely rapid and in just over a decade have dramatically changed the digital landscape with the massification of the internet and mobile communications. it is therefore important to look to the future and define a strategy for the digital agenda, setting concrete objectives, with particular attention to issues relating to consumer rights, privacy and personal data, as well as copyright and the fight against piracy on the internet.
in writing. − information and communication technologies (ict) contribute to a prosperous and competitive economy and help to achieve a more environmentally friendly, democratic, open and inclusive society. they enable efficiency by helping sustainable growth. in this way, icts contribute to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. there are currently large disparities between and within member states in terms of the availability of broadband to citizens. it is urgent to build a digital single market for services in the eu that avoids regulatory fragmentation and contributes to the free movement of digital services and e-commerce . an ambitious digital agenda must therefore be adopted, accompanied by a comprehensive action plan providing economic, social and cultural opportunities for all european citizens, with special attention to rural areas. i stress the importance of providing all citizens with ubiquitous, high-speed access to fixed and mobile broadband. all eu citizens should have access to broadband internet at a competitive price by 2013 using national and european funds to do so.
in writing. - there are a number of positive aspects to this report, although it is developed within the framework of the internal market which the european union defends. we recognise the underlying benefits of a digital agenda for europe, as presented in the report, namely in ensuring 'access to cultural products for all citizens', in guaranteeing 'equivalent access for end-users with disabilities', in the availability of 'greater investment in the use of open source software in the eu' and in 'particular attention to rural areas, those affected by industrial transition and those suffering from severe and permanent natural or demographic disadvantages, in particular the outermost regions'. we have contributed to these proposals. however, we believe that a digital agenda of the vanguard rejects any commercialisation of knowledge, education and research. we therefore do not accept that the positive objectives should be disguised by the ambiguities and variations of the european single market. the 'strengthening', 'promotion' and 'good functioning' of the 'internal market' is no longer 'consumer-friendly' and 'results in lower prices' as it is being made to believe. the opposite has been proven on several occasions in the most diverse sectors of activity in the european union. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − a new digital agenda for europe is essential if there is to be a digital revolution from which all european citizens benefit. however, this requires the involvement of all citizens in the process, so that they become actors in the new digital society. but for this to be possible, a major investment effort is needed to close the digital divide that currently exists in the eu. we must not forget that informed and enlightened citizens contribute to increasing europe's potential.
in writing. - article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the commission is responsible for the implementation of the community budget in cooperation with the member states and that the court of auditors is to send the european parliament and the council a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i think it is essential, in the interests of transparency, that the european parliament should have this capacity to audit the accounts and to be able to analyse in detail the implementation of the community budget. i support the rapporteur and the resolutions on discharge, when he draws attention to the urgency of introducing a national declaration, at an appropriate political level, covering all community funds under shared management, so that each member state takes responsibility for the management of the community funds received. this is all the more important since we know that 80% of community expenditure is managed by the member states. finally, i note the positive assessment of the accounts by the court of auditors, which gives european citizens the assurance that the community budget is being managed properly and rigorously, despite some problems that persist and which are analysed in detail in this report.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the commission and the implementing agencies is appropriate.
in writing. − i believe that accountability of public officials to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an account of how public funds have been used, in an objective and rigorous way. although the court of auditors considers that the revenue and commitments do not contain significant errors, it is nevertheless concerned about the high level of non-quantifiable errors affecting budget support commitments and the significant level of estimated error in payments. like the rapporteur, i also regret that the court of auditors was unable to obtain all the necessary information and documentation on 10 payments made to international organisations and consequently was unable to give an opinion on the regularity of expenditure amounting to eur 190 million, or 6.7% of annual expenditure. i therefore urge the edf to regularize all these issues in the next financial year (2009).
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report of the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that it is essential for politicians to be accountable to the public, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how the public funds at their disposal have been used. this report provides a comprehensive analysis of parliament's budgetary situation, highlighting some important issues that need to be reviewed. i note that the rapporteur expresses his concern at the continuing occurrence of petty crime on parliament's premises and accordingly requests that the secretary-general pay particular attention to this matter with a view to reducing petty crime. this may seem trivial, but it is of course of great importance to all of us who use the european parliament's premises on a daily basis. finally, i note the positive assessment made by the court of auditors of the accounts presented, which gives european citizens the assurance that the community budget is being managed properly and rigorously.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the implementation of the budget of the european union, section i - european parliament is appropriate.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. the court of auditors, in its annual report, reveals that the audit did not raise any significant observations with regard to the eesc. the court of auditors, however, points out that there are situations which need to be improved, such as the reimbursement of travel expenses for eesc members, which should be based on actual costs only, or the fact that the eesc grants its staff a financial advantage not granted by the other institutions, which results in higher expenses. i welcome the fact that the eesc has adopted the practice of including in its activity report a chapter describing the follow-up given during the year to previous parliament discharge decisions and to the court of auditors' reports.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section vi european economic and social committee.
in writing. - i believe that public officials' accountability to citizens is fundamental, which is why they must give an objective and rigorous account of how public funds put at their disposal have been used. this is the framework within which parliament's assessment of the accounts presented and their discharge is to be found. i am pleased to note that the court of auditors' report states that the audit did not raise any significant observations with regard to the cor. i agree with the rapporteur that he has a positive assessment of the improvements in the internal control environment of the cor, in particular with regard to the inventory of its main administrative, operational and financial procedures. finally, i am pleased to note the quality of the cor's annual activity report, in particular the explicit inclusion of the follow-up given to parliament's previous discharge decisions, underlining the importance and relevance of these decisions.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union, section vii committee of the regions of the court of justice.
in writing. − the increase in external agencies has played an important role in concentrating technical and administrative capacity to support the commission's decision-making. moreover, the fact that they are spread over the union makes it possible to bring the institutions closer to the citizens, thus increasing their visibility and legitimacy. while the increase in the number of agencies is generally positive, the truth is that it creates challenges in monitoring and evaluating their performance. for this reason, following the adoption of the commission communication of 11 march 2008 entitled 'european agencies - a look ahead', parliament, the council and the commission relaunched the project to define a common framework for agencies and set up an interinstitutional working group in 2009. i think this group will play a key role in eliminating the problems that the court of auditors has identified in the various agencies, many of which are common, and in defining a common framework for better budgetary and financial management in the future.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on performance, financial management and control of agencies is appropriate.
in writing. − the court of auditors, in its report on the academy's annual accounts for the financial year 2008, gave reasons for its opinion without, however, expressing any reservations as to the reliability of the accounts, and drew up a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. moreover, as a general rule, the academy's replies to the court of auditors' observations are again insufficient and its resolutions too generic and random, leaving parliament in no position to assess properly whether the academy is actually capable of making improvements in the future. in addition, there are still numerous structural problems and irregularities relating to the academy, as set out in the report. i therefore support the rapporteur's decision to postpone the decision to grant the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2008.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european police college is appropriate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for relations with latin america which advocates the full realisation of a bi-regional strategic partnership. i would like to stress the importance of the recommendation for the coordination of the positions of the two regional blocs in the negotiations on the united nations framework convention on environment and climate change.
in writing. - i share the rapporteur's view of the need to deepen and strengthen the bonds of bi-regional cooperation between the european union and latin america. i believe, however, that the union cannot fail to pay particular attention to one of the latin american countries whose population size, economic potential and regional leadership are already calling for it. i am, of course, talking about the largest portuguese-speaking country in the world: brazil. the european commission communication com (2007) 281 of 30 may explicitly recognised that the eu-brazil dialogue was not sufficiently exploited, being processed mainly within the framework of the eu-mercosur dialogue. brazil will be the last of the brics countries to meet the eu at a summit. the time has come to look to brazil as a strategic partner, a leading economic actor in latin america and a regional leader. while the other european institutions are doing their job, the european parliament is resisting the idea of leaving this great country to mercosur alone, with brazil being the only bric country with which the european parliament does not have an autonomous parliamentary delegation. an anachronistic and regrettable circumstance that needs to be corrected.
in writing. − the biregional strategic partnership contributes to further strengthening eu-latin america coordination in the international fora and institutions. in addition to the establishment of a proposed common agenda, coordination of positions on issues of global importance should be pursued, taking into account the interests and concerns of both sides. i therefore voted in favour of the commission communication 'the european union and latin america: a partnership between global players' which aims to identify and formulate operational proposals aimed at the full realisation of the bi-regional strategic partnership.
in writing. - this report does not take account of the real problems facing latin america and does not set out the essential points which should be contained in the eu strategy for relations with latin america. for example, it ignores all the economic and social problems that will result from the signing of the free trade agreements, it accepts as an indisputable fact the normalization of relations with honduras, ignoring the coup d'état and the still recent murders of members of the resistance front against the coup. it ignores the situation in colombia, the crimes of the paramilitaries, the persecution of trade unionists and politicians, which are not a problem worth mentioning. on the other hand, it criticises, although it never explicitly mentions, bolivia and venezuela. but it says nothing about the reactivation of the us fourth fleet in the region, the us plan to use seven colombian military bases, or the interference operations carried out from military bases in the territories of eu and nato countries. unfortunately, they rejected most of the proposals we made on the above-mentioned subjects, and so in the end we voted against the resolution.
in writing. - as the eu is the largest investor and second largest trading partner in latin america, and also the largest provider of development aid, we believe that this data is sufficient to have a clear and well-defined strategy for eu-latin america relations. we call for clear guidelines on how best to work together to promote political stability, combat climate change, manage migration flows and prevent natural disasters. as we witnessed in the haitian tragedy, the eu was clearly put in the background in relation to other actors. that is why we argue that the eu should correct its international behaviour. it should therefore intervene more consistently and effectively in international politics. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − the european union and latin america have developed a strong strategic partnership over the years. the union is the largest investor in latin america, its second largest trading partner and its largest provider of development aid. the ultimate objective is to create a euro-latin american area of comprehensive interregional partnership by 2015 at political, economic, commercial, social and cultural levels, with a view to ensuring sustainable development in both regions. in this context, i would stress the importance of resuming negotiations on the eu-mercosur association agreement as a first step, which should be the most ambitious bi-regional agreement ever. i also welcome the initiatives for a trade partnership between the european union and central america and the andean community, as well as the deepening of the existing association agreements with mexico and chile. i regret, however, that such trade agreements may affect internal community production in these same sectors, especially in the outermost regions, which are experiencing permanent difficulties, and that adequate compensation has not been found at community level for these regions. i believe that a partnership between the two regions of the world, which will bring mutual benefits in the political, economic and social spheres, is essential and i therefore voted in favour of this document.
in writing. − for historical and cultural reasons, because of its ethnic and political affinities and because of the shared values and civilizational references, canada is a reliable and important partner of the european union. a comprehensive economic and trade agreement with canada can contribute positively to the deepening of the already excellent eu-canada relations. while obstacles to this relationship arise, particularly in the areas of fisheries, security and immigration, the truth is that, compared to other countries, the us-canada relationship is stable and fruitful for both partners. i hope that this relationship of trust will endure and that the north atlantic will continue to be peaceful and prosperous on both sides.
in writing. - i note that the partnership between canada and the european union is one of the oldest and closest, dating back to 1959, and that the current negotiations for a comprehensive economic and trade agreement aim to intensify relations between the eu and canada. i would point out that in 2010 canada holds the presidency of the g8 group of countries and will host the next g20 summit. i therefore welcome the commission's statement that progress in negotiations on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement is a key factor in economic relations between the eu and canada. in this context, i believe that the eu-canada summit of 5 may 2010 in brussels creates a good opportunity to move these negotiations forward. i particularly welcome the intention to carry out a major reform of canada's fisheries management system, which will also involve the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation (nafo).
in writing. - canada is a long-standing partner of the eu. it is therefore natural that over the years this relationship has been deepened and improved. the european union is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective system of customs and trade facilitation. there are also other relevant issues that link the eu and canada, such as community aid, particularly to haiti, fisheries issues, and environmental concerns. we must not forget that the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament new responsibilities in the negotiation of international agreements and that it must be involved at all stages of the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted against the interim agreement between the eu and the us on the transfer of european citizens' financial data, not only because it was manifestly wrong, calling into question the principles of necessity and proportionality and the integrity and security of european financial data, but also because it denied the ep the possibility of exercising its prerogatives properly. i believe that there is a need to strengthen transatlantic cooperation in all relevant areas, particularly in the area of freedom, security and justice. but this can only happen if there is absolute respect for fundamental principles such as proportionality, necessity and reciprocity. in this new chapter, i cannot but congratulate both the commission and the council on their new approach to cooperation with the ep. i hope that together we will be able to establish the basic principles which should guide and facilitate future cooperation between the eu and the us in the fight against terrorism. i look forward to the conclusions of the ep delegation's visit to washington, and hope that we can also see a 'turning of the page' here.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that any agreement between the eu and the us in this area should also include strict enforcement and monitoring guarantees, by a competent authority designated by the eu for this purpose. only in this way can it be ensured that these data transfers do not constitute a departure from the principles which guide eu law and practice.
in writing. − international judicial cooperation and transatlantic cooperation are essential in the fight against terrorism. the long-term agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the prevention of the financing of terrorism is therefore welcome. such an agreement, however, must not jeopardise the privacy of transactions by natural and legal persons. the european legal requirements for the fair, necessary, proportionate and lawful processing of personal data are therefore of paramount importance and should therefore continue to apply in all circumstances. the eu should establish the basic principles governing the modalities of general cooperation with the us to combat terrorism and the mechanisms for reporting information on suspicious or irregular transactions by its citizens. an eu-us judicial cooperation agreement on the prevention of terrorist financing should be concluded, ensuring that the transfer of personal data respects the rights and freedoms of european citizens and businesses and protects their security without unnecessarily compromising the privacy of their transactions.
in writing. − in accordance with the eu-us interim agreement, i subscribed to the need for transatlantic cooperation in the fight against international crime and terrorism. i stressed that this cooperation must be based on mutual loyalty and respect for the principles of reciprocity, proportionality and respect for the rights of citizens. but security cannot be superimposed on other rights, freedoms and guarantees. it is not acceptable that the police in portugal can only access the banking data of one person with a court warrant while millions of data can be sent to be known and analysed by the american police without judicial control. that's why i voted against the interim agreement. the new motion for a resolution under consideration, however, demonstrates a new approach by the commission and the council in terms of cooperation with the ep. i hope that future cooperation between the eu and the us in the fight against terrorism will be based on respect for the principles of proportionality, necessity and reciprocity.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism. many experts have stated that the protection of rights, freedoms and guarantees is not guaranteed under such an agreement. the so-called swift agreement and the framework agreement on data protection and sharing, rather than being a security guarantee, constitute a threat. within eu-us relations there is a different understanding of data protection, competences, legislation and privacy. these matters need to be clarified before the commission is given a new mandate. but the majority of the ep has given the commission a blank check, through ambiguous limitations such as 'proportionality' or 'reciprocity', opening a real pandora's box against freedom and promoting the subtraction of functions from the states, such as the decision on the transfer of data of their citizens, which is attributed to a european 'judicial public authority'. there is no possible 'proportionality' or 'reciprocity' on the mass storage and transfer of data, as it involves a set of uncontrollable dangers, namely on who accesses it, the use and the purpose.
in writing. - the fight against terrorism is a concern of the eu as well as of the whole democratic world. all the mechanisms that help to detect possible attacks are paramount to the success of this fight. the swift agreement is a very powerful instrument in the fight against terrorism, as it allows access to inside financial information regarding transfers of funds between countries. the renegotiation of this agreement with the us is a unique opportunity for the eu to contribute effectively to the detection of new terrorists and potential attacks. there is now a great desire on the part of the united states to cooperate, which is what makes for an agreement which effectively protects the data transmitted and where there is the greatest possible reciprocity.
in writing. - the fight against terrorism and its financing is an unavoidable reality and deserves our utmost attention, which is why transatlantic cooperation is imperative. the previous attempt at an agreement between the european union and the united states of america on data processing and transfer lacked proportionality, reciprocity and transparency. the resolution calls for a common definition of 'terrorist activity' and a clarification of the concept of 'data not extracted', while reiterating the need to limit the exchange of information to the principle of necessity and to limit its use to the time strictly necessary for this purpose. a set of guarantees is now being proposed which are based on european legislative practice and which therefore offer citizens greater protection in the field of fundamental rights. the aim is not only to safeguard the principle of non-discrimination throughout the data processing process, but also to designate a european authority capable of receiving and supervising us requests. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the basis has now been laid for the opening of negotiations to reach a balanced agreement between the european union and the united states.
in writing. − the need to reach a balanced agreement with the us on the transfer of pnr data has been a constant concern in recent years. the current state of negotiations does not yet reflect the existence of any real legal protection of data in the us, as such data can be retained for years after security checks have been carried out and there is no legal protection for non-us citizens. the agreements concluded with both australia and canada are more acceptable, since the principle of proportionality is better respected, with limited access in terms of scope, time and number of data, all subject to judicial control. only with a coherent approach and the establishment of general principles and rules for the use of pnr data can we break this deadlock and proceed to conclude any international agreements in this area, whether with these three countries or with the avalanche of similar requests that is coming. i support the joint motion to postpone the vote on parliament's consent, hoping that with a little more time the negotiations can meet the concerns that the ep has always expressed.
in writing. - the debate on the transmission of passengers' personal data by airlines on transatlantic flights has been a major embarrassment in the european union's relations with the united states, australia and canada and is one of the dilemmas of our time. on the one hand, there is no doubt that the particular need to protect the privacy, intimacy and data of each citizen is a matter of great importance. on the other hand, few would deny that we are living in a time when threats to people's security require not only better information exchange between law enforcement authorities in the fight against crime, but also proper handling of that information in order to make them better able to combat organised crime and, in particular, terrorism. i hope that the pause in the procedure imposed by the european parliament will allow a fair balance to be struck between these values.
in writing. - the current state of negotiations on data transfer does not yet ensure effective legal protection of data in the us, as such data can be retained for years after security checks have been carried out and there is no legal protection for non-us citizens. i therefore support the joint proposal to postpone the vote on parliament's consent, hoping that with a little more time the negotiations can meet the concerns that the ep has expressed in this area.
in writing. the passenger name record (pnr) is another instrument in the fight against terrorism. the european parliament, under the lisbon treaty, is once again called upon to take part in the negotiations for a new pnr agreement between the eu, the us, australia and canada. the eu, as a strong supporter of the fight against terrorism and transnational and organised crime, is willing to negotiate agreements that are effective in this fight, while safeguarding and protecting civil liberties and fundamental rights.
in writing. the special toxicity of the use of cyanide and the effects of its use on the mining operation, both for those who use it and for the fauna and flora surrounding the mines, calls for a ban on the use of cyanide in the mining operation, otherwise cases of contamination will increase, with disastrous consequences for people and the environment. however, and taking into account the current needs of the mining industry, this prohibition cannot be immediate and measures to minimise the environmental impact of the use of cyanide should be considered and introduced.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes a general ban on the use of mining technologies in the eu that use cyanide until the end of 2011, as i believe that the proposed ban is at this moment the only reliable way to protect our water resources and ecosystems from pollution caused by cyanide used in mining. i would stress the need to oblige companies operating mining installations to take out insurance to cover the compensation for any damage and the costs incurred in repairing and restoring the original ecological and chemical state in the event of an accident or malfunction.
in writing. − with the adoption of the water framework directive, the eu has been very explicit in its objectives regarding the quality of water resources, which should be free from all types of chemical agents. the prohibition of the use of cyanide-based technologies in mining is essential to achieve these objectives. we must replace this technique with environmentally friendly alternatives, since cyanide-based technologies have been responsible for more than 30 serious accidents in the last 25 years.
in writing. the situation is serious. the lack of solidarity of the european union leaders, especially germany, in the agreement on the situation in greece is notorious. it is above all a question of political control of the country, accompanied by the imposition of a social regression of decades, calling into question all the principles which they have always proclaimed, of economic and social cohesion, convergence, solidarity and the so-called european social model. as the struggle of the workers and the popular strata in greece has shown, it is unacceptable to demand that the greek government call into question fundamental rights. this tax arises as the counterpart to a loan at an interest rate which is higher than that of the imf itself. it seems that for the leaders of the eurozone there are no limits. they have gained from the fragility of greece and now they are imposing their imperial position of absolute domination of their domestic policy in exchange for a loan where they will still gain from the interest. they must change this decision at the next summit. they should opt for a lump sum support from the community budget on an exceptional basis or from funding from future community budgets. the richest countries in the euro area must for once accept the principle of economic and social cohesion.
mr president, this strategy does not answer the serious problems we are facing, let alone the real economic and social disaster that the imposition of free competition policies is causing in some member states with weaker economies. it is a mistake to insist on policies identical to the liberal lisbon strategy, which has thrown aside the objectives announced ten years ago of full employment and poverty eradication, giving priority to the interests of economic and financial groups, to their gains, at the expense of the worsening social and labour situation. it is enough to see the consequences of applying the blind criteria of the stability pact and of the liberalisations and privatisations of strategic sectors and public services, including financial services, energy, transport and the post office. it is enough to look at what is happening in the field of work, with the growth of precariousness and unemployment, which now reaches more than 23 million unemployed, to which 85 million people in poverty are added. contrary to what is being suggested, all the indicators show that, if the strategies followed so far are maintained, economic growth rates will be very low and below those in other parts of the world, which means worsening unemployment, precarious and low-paid work, poverty and social exclusion. unfortunately, the community budget does not respond to the need for economic and social cohesion, as the situation in greece clearly demonstrates. so it is time to assess and assume the consequences of the policies pursued. it's time to prioritize social sustainability. it is time to put an end to financial speculation and the financialisation of the economy. it is time to end the stability pact and give the ecb other functions, to control the financial sector effectively and to give priority to a genuine pact for social progress and development.
in writing. the deep crisis to which the reigning neoliberalism has led europe has led the authors of strategy 2020 to seek to wrap their objectives in a social and environmental rhetoric that has been heavily propagandized. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european union, and its member states have been able to support it. but the familiar instruments of strategy 2020 leave no room for doubt: this is an old strategy, which aims to justify and make viable old policies, with known consequences. the flexibility and deregulation of labour, the priority given to the deepening of the internal market, with the liberalization and privatisation of even more economic sectors, the liberalization and deregulation of international trade, are, after all, all the instruments which have brought us to the present situation. to insist on them is nothing but a genuine 'flight forward', persisting on the path of economic, social and environmental disaster. the more than 20 million unemployed are being used to impose on the rest of the workforce a further devaluation of the labour force, generalising precariousness, intermittent employment and structural unemployment. the much-vaunted 'social market economy' is nothing but the commodification of all spheres of social life, of nature and its resources.
in writing. ten years have passed since the adoption of the lisbon strategy and most of the objectives set remain unfulfilled. the one that worries me most is the weak economic growth, which determines the other targets, and that in the ten years of the strategy's life, only in two of them has it exceeded the 3% rate. the lisbon strategy was strong in ambition but lacked strength in action, having been based on 'soft law' and the open method of coordination. the new 2020 strategy also incorporates education, environmental, poverty reduction and investment in innovation targets in addition to employment targets. both the new objectives and the instruments for achieving them belong to the member states, and in the context of the crisis and the commitment of the stability and growth pacts (sgp), we need better governance mechanisms and genuine economic and budgetary coordination between countries. this programme comes at a time of economic uncertainty and high unemployment, and its reduction is an immediate priority. the commission should take the lead and lead this process. strong economic growth will be crucial to delivering on the cfp and can be stimulated through the reforms and investment underpinning strategy 2020.
i think it is really important that we think about this electric vehicle issue and discuss it in depth. many of the issues i would like to mention have already been raised here, but i would say that they are important because we have to think about them in the development model we are living in today, and they are fundamental to allow us to rethink it, both in terms of reducing dependence on fossil fuels and in terms of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, as has already been mentioned, and in terms of improving energy efficiency and enhancing the potential for using energy from non-renewable sources. but there are two points which i think are absolutely central. we cannot see any of these strategies unless they are integrated first of all into a broader mobility strategy that goes beyond the automobile sector, that includes other means of transport, which has to be much more comprehensive, otherwise it does not solve our problem. a second point, which is also very important, is that we must take into account the crisis in which we live, and in a crisis context such as the one in which we live we must take this opportunity to reconvert and re-skill the world of work, avoiding negative social impacts. we are no longer able to have any more negative social impacts and i therefore called for this strategy to be considered and viewed in an integrated way, as we have tried to do in the motion for a resolution which we are jointly presenting here in parliament tomorrow.
mr president, i welcome the recent communication on clean and efficient vehicles. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the principles of the common market and the internal market rules. but we must not forget that europe is now the world leader in the automobile sector and we cannot put this competitive advantage at risk. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to develop the conditions necessary to create an internal market for electric vehicles. i also stress the need to harmonize the standards for batteries and compatible charging points in the various member states. it is also important that tax incentives are created with electricity tariffs that are appropriate for the consumer. another essential factor will be the modernisation of the electricity distribution networks. i call for more investment in research and development in the area of developing smart grids and battery technology to make the use of raw materials in batteries more efficient. i therefore call for every effort to be made to ensure that europe maintains its world leadership in the automobile industry.
mr president, the limitations associated with electric vehicles, such as the pollution associated with the production of batteries, the difficulties in supplying strategic elements such as lithium, the reduced range of vehicles, among others, discourage commercial or propaganda voluntarism. but these vehicles are an important and necessary alternative to consider, despite these problems. but they can never, by any means, quantitatively replace the current fossil fuel vehicles. the automobile society as we know it today is therefore doomed to a deadline. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of power generators is a very good one. the car, even if it is electric, should in the medium and long term have a supplementary and complementary function to meet the specific needs of households.
the commission has just presented the communication on clean and energy efficient vehicles in which it sets out a neutral view on electric vehicles, giving no priority to any of the specific options available, whether electric, hybrid or hydrogen vehicles. however, at the informal council meeting in san sebastian in february, it was agreed that the eu should lead a common strategy on electric vehicles. this means that the commission must give priority to solving the problems that still plague the production of electric vehicles, such as the cost of batteries, the need for more research and development to improve characteristics and, most importantly, the harmonisation of electric vehicles and charging points, both at global and european level, to ensure a high level of competitiveness in the market, so that electric vehicles can compete on an equal footing with traditional combustion engines. i would therefore remind the commission of the need to give priority to the financial resources allocated to this purpose, especially because of the simple fact that electric vehicles have as an added value an excellent energy storage capacity, which other options do not have and which is so necessary for our energy independence.
mr president, financial speculators are increasingly attacking the most vulnerable and dependent economies in the euro area. the financial capital, which has received billions of euros from the states, is the same that is now speculating on the fragility of public accounts created by these transfers and the economic dependence of the peripheral economies. dependence caused by a monetary and exchange rate policy conducted by the ecb, with its false independence, at the service of big capital and the great european powers, aggravated by the liberalisation of markets and free competition in international trade. in this context, governments and the european union have just made it very clear what european solidarity means: to lay the groundwork for the continuation of the looting of financial capital and to transfer the costs of theft to workers and the people, if necessary by means of genuine social terrorism. but the workers and the people will not capitulate to the course that is announced to them as inevitable, and which is not. your struggle there is demonstrating it. in greece, in portugal and in so many other countries, we salute them for their courage and determination.
mr president, a few days ago we celebrated the 120th anniversary of the international workers' day. it has been 120 years of a relentless, hard and heroic struggle of workers all over the world for the rights and emancipation of work, for a society in which work, finally free from exploitation, constitutes the full realization of the creative capacities of the human being. it has been 120 years of rapid advances, painful setbacks, and the workers' tenacious resistance. may day and its universal slogans have historically been built on the most violent repression at the cost of countless struggles, sacrifices, lives lost. it has been consolidated with each advance of the peoples in the conquest of liberties, it has suffered and suffers setbacks every time that historical circumstances allow big capital to go on the offensive. as is the case in the european union today. as you see in greece, portugal and so many other countries. it is necessary to take account of these struggles and not to persist in the aggravation of exploitation. it's time to respect the dignity of those who work and create wealth.
mr president, commissioner, the fight against cancer must be a priority. about 30% of cancers can be prevented and their consequences mitigated through early detection and treatment. some cancers affect women and men differently. every year in the european union there are 275,000 more women with breast cancer and there is an increase even in the youngest women. cervical cancer is diagnosed in 50,000 european women every year and 25,000 die from the disease. however, cervical cancer can be virtually eliminated with widespread vaccination and screening programs. it is therefore urgent that all member states extend vaccination and screening programmes to all women of childbearing age. and they also need to promote health education campaigns, raise awareness of the importance of early diagnosis, and inform people of available programs and services. i therefore welcome this initiative by the commission.
in writing. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon changed the composition of the ep from 736 to 751 members. there will be eight new members from 12 member states. because the treaty of lisbon sets a maximum threshold for the number of meps per member state, germany will have 3 fewer seats. since it is not possible to suspend the mandate of a member during the parliamentary term, this means that the ep will have 754 members for the time being, which means that the treaty must be amended to temporarily remove the limit of 751 members. i think it would have been better to have applied this new composition in the 2014 elections and not in the current legislature, but i note that there is a broad consensus to make these changes immediately. i agree that the intergovernmental conference, which will be convened only to adopt transitional provisions for the remainder of this parliamentary term, should not be preceded by a convention, but that should not be a precedent for the future.
in writing. - the european convention, which evoked the french and american experience, was guilty of assuming a legitimacy which it did not have at the time. i therefore believe that the convention which adopted the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe has in the end overstepped the powers conferred on it. i wish the results had been different, but the circumstances at the time did not allow it. i therefore believe that returning to the formula of the intergovernmental conferences is the most realistic way of ensuring dialogue between states and their governments and of adhering to the concrete problems which it is called upon to solve, such as the one we voted for.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the decision not to convene a convention for the revision of the treaties as regards the transitional measures relating to the composition of the european parliament, as i considered that it was not necessary to convene a convention to approve a transitional and limited amendment to the provisions of the eu treaty. i agree that the council should amend protocol no 36 in the framework of an intergovernmental conference without convening a convention.
in writing. − the last european elections (2009) took place before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, so the composition of the ep was still that established by the treaty of nice (736 members). the european council agreed to the proposed composition suggested by the ep in 2007, increasing the number from 750 to 751. i thought it preferable that the new composition of the ep only apply to the next european elections in 2014. but there is a broad consensus that it should be done now. the way in which the 18 new members (shared between 12 member states) will be elected will therefore have to be regulated. the new treaty sets a ceiling on the number of members per member state, which means that germany will lose three seats. since it is not possible to interrupt the term of office of an elected member during the parliament's term of office, the ep will have 754 members for the transitional period. i agree with the rapporteur, mr mendez de vigo, when he recommends that new members take office on the same date to avoid a regional distortion in the representation of the ep. i do not agree with the possibility of the new members being appointed by the national authorities. i believe that only election gives a member of parliament legitimacy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the 18 additional members from the 12 member states can be sworn in through a democratic process. i regret that the council did not take the necessary steps in time to enable these members to take office immediately after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the failure of the lisbon treaty to enter into force in time to be immediately applicable to the 2009-2014 european parliament elections has created a problem which i believe has been resolved with common sense and reflects the inevitable difficulties of transitional periods. it would therefore be neither reasonable nor legitimate to withdraw the mandate of elected members, nor would it be reasonable to prevent the states which benefit from an increase in the number of their representatives from being able to appoint them in accordance with their respective electoral legislation. the exceptional nature of the circumstances fully justifies the exceptional nature of the solutions adopted.
in writing. - the increase in the total number of meps from 736 to 751 was approved, with 18 additional seats distributed among 12 member states. germany would lose three seats, due to the maximum threshold set by the eu treaty. the treaty of lisbon did not enter into force before the 2009 european elections, and the provisions of the treaty of nice therefore apply, so that the european parliament now has 736 meps instead of 751. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. it is not possible to suspend the mandate of a member during the parliamentary term and therefore the number of members of the german delegation cannot be reduced by three. i therefore believe that the amendment to protocol no 36 requested by the european council is a direct consequence of the new provisions of the treaty of lisbon and constitutes a valid solution which will allow the member states with additional seats to appoint their own members. these 18 members must be sworn in simultaneously so as not to distort national representativeness.
in writing. as we have been saying and as this report shows, the treaty of lisbon, apart from the development of neoliberal, militarist and federalist policies, is an instrument full of ambiguities and contradictions such as those expressed in protocol no 36 on provisions relating to the european parliament. the arrogance of its promoters was so great that they were not allowed to give flexibility to these provisions, because they had done everything to avoid holding referendums, to avoid the vote of the peoples of the eu countries and the repetition of the no of the french and dutch peoples to the so-called "constitutional treaty". the irish people also said no to the travestied version of this text and only after much pressure and blackmail did they get their vote, but after the ep elections. this report highlighted the attempt by some meps to push the eu further towards federalism, invoking a democratic legitimacy that the treaty lacks, and to subordinate national legislation even more to eu interests, with proposals aimed at a 'uniform electoral procedure' in all member states, a matter of the sovereign competence of each state, and calling for 'a convention to be convened to reform the ep to prepare for the revision of the treaties'.
in writing. - as a result of the break-up of the former soviet union, kyrgyzstan has been contested by the major powers and seems to have fallen into a process of political turmoil and the disintegration of the political and social fabric which needs to be better monitored by the european institutions and the governments of the member states. the relative european ignorance of the central asian republics must be overcome and channels of communication and communication must be sought which will allow greater access to information and a more detailed monitoring of their realities. i welcome the european union's determination to put freedom, democracy and human rights at the centre of its agenda for kyrgyzstan. i also hope that the interim government will live up to its promises and undertake reforms which take these issues into account. the announcement of elections and a constitutional referendum is an encouraging sign for the time being.
in writing. − the presidential elections in kyrgyzstan last year, in which kurmanbek bakiev was re-elected, were marked by large-scale fraud, according to independent observers. in fact, after the first democratic initiatives, the bakiev regime became authoritarian. after strong popular demonstrations president bakiev was forced to leave the capital and his place was taken by a provisional government led by roza otunbayeva, leader of the opposition, who promulgated a decree on the succession of power as well as an order to respect the constitution of kyrgyzstan. it records the measures taken by the provisional government to restore democracy. in the meantime, bakiev has left the country and taken refuge in kazakhstan. kyrgyzstan is of particular interest to the united states and russia because of its strategic location in the center of asia. the eu and central asia share common challenges in energy, the fight against climate change, drug control and the fight against terrorism. the eu should therefore engage in an active dialogue with the interim government with a view to strengthening relations and promoting good governance, the independence of the judiciary and other eu policy objectives set out in the central asia strategy.
in writing. - the current situation in kyrgyzstan is worrying, especially since the country is located in a very important region of central asia, in a geostrategic position close to afghanistan and bordering the fergana valley. an international inquiry sponsored by the united nations into the events is needed to establish responsibility. it is important that the special representative for central asia closely monitors the situation in close coordination with the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.
in writing. - i welcome the recent communication on clean and efficient vehicles. the marketing of the electric car can represent a competitive advantage for the european industry. but we must not forget that europe is now the world leader in the automobile sector and we cannot put this competitive advantage at risk. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to develop the conditions necessary to create a single market for electric vehicles. i also stress the need to harmonize the standards for batteries and compatible charging points in the various member states. it is equally important that tax incentives are created with adequate and cost-effective electricity tariffs for the consumer. another essential factor will be the modernisation of the electricity distribution networks. i call for more investment in r & d in the area of developing smart grids and battery technology to make the use of raw materials more efficient. i therefore call for every effort to be made to ensure that europe maintains its world leadership in the automobile industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that electric vehicles can contribute to the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, which are to develop a knowledge-based and innovation-based economy and to promote a more resource-efficient economy, i.e. greener and more competitive.
in writing. − at a time when the debate on co2 emissions has become inevitable, at the heart of the discussion on climate change, and when volatile fuel prices have made it unsustainable (at least in the long term) to maintain the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives, it is important that alternatives are found. innovation, therefore, in the service of economic and social needs, must seek to find scientifically and economically viable solutions. in view of the fact that electric vehicles are an important innovation and have a high long-term economic potential, being responsible for reducing co2 and other pollutant emissions, improving energy efficiency and promoting innovation, based on technological leadership, there should be a european strategy for electric vehicles, supporting the industry in developing clean and viable technologies and supporting the creation of a single market for electric vehicles. i would like to say that the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will continue to do so.
in writing. − the challenges of climate change, co2 and other pollutant emissions and volatile fuel prices have created a climate favourable to the development of electric vehicles worldwide. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy and the energy union strategy. it is important that the high costs resulting mainly from the cost of the batteries in these vehicles should be reduced, which requires research and innovation. i therefore welcome the priority given by the spanish presidency to the development of electric vehicles in the fight against climate change and i welcome the commission's communication of 27 april 2010 on a european strategy for clean and energy-efficient vehicles. i believe that the conditions for a single market for electric vehicles must be created, while ensuring effective policy coordination at eu level so that this transition avoids negative impacts, in particular on employment. this coordination also promotes compatibility and interoperability.
in writing. - we believe that the development of electric vehicles is necessary as an alternative to vehicles using fossil fuels. in the face of the associated air pollution and the inexorable depletion of fossil fuel reserves, particularly oil, over the next few decades, in the unfortunately likely event that the current energy paradigm persists, the development of electric vehicles is an important option to consider. the limitations and problems still associated with these vehicles, which we have mentioned during the debate, should not be ignored. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties. above all, the 'target of a transport system with much less carbon emissions by 2050' referred to in the resolution should imply a significant increase in the development and promotion of the use of various types of public transport - public, so that they are accessible to all - where electric vehicles should ensure a strong presence.
in writing. − the growing concern about co2 emissions and climate change makes it imperative to move quickly to make electric vehicles a viable alternative to today's vehicles in the near future. the increase in this means of transport contributes very positively to the achievement of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the eu must therefore make major investments in creating a supply network that effectively covers the european area. we must also take decisive steps to overcome a number of constraints which do not make this transport mode attractive at present.
in writing. − having initiated the procedure for the revision of the legislation applicable to motor vehicles, in particular regulation (ec) no 1400/2002 ('mvber') and regulation (ec) no 2790/1999 ('rica'), it is important to note that the union and its member states are currently facing an unprecedented economic and financial crisis, which has had real and profound impacts on the automotive industry, which remains a key factor in the european economy, contributing to employment, technological innovation and competitiveness. the new regulatory framework should therefore take into account the need to create the conditions for the sustainability of the european automotive industry in the medium and long term, enabling it to remain at the forefront of technology and innovation and economically sustainable. the new regulatory framework should encourage the manufacture and use of electric vehicles, as well as environmentally friendly research and the development of cars with a lower environmental impact and emissions.
in writing. - one of the two biggest health challenges facing europe is cancer. cancer is the second leading cause of death and morbidity in europe, with 3 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths every year. according to who, at least one third of all cancers are preventable. it is therefore essential that stakeholders across the european union engage in a collective effort to tackle cancer. the proposal presented by the commission for a 'european partnership for action against cancer - 2009-2013' has two aims, to support the efforts of the two member states to combat cancer, by establishing a framework for identifying and sharing information, skills and expertise on the prevention and control of this disease and by bringing together stakeholders from across the eu in a collective effort. i welcome the objective of reducing cancer incidence by introducing screening for breast, uterine and rectal cancer for 100% of the population by 2013 and urge member states to implement the above guidelines. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report 'action against cancer: european partnership'.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's proposal to create a european partnership for action against cancer for the period 2009-2013, as i consider the fight against cancer to be an essential part of the health strategy. however, as a primary prevention, i call for measures to be developed to encourage the adoption of healthy lifestyles as an essential factor in improving health. environmental factors also affect health, so it is necessary to combat the environmental problems responsible for the development of specific types of cancer. it is therefore important to have a cross-cutting and integrated approach in areas of action such as education, environment, research and social issues, as well as greater coordination between the different cancer research centres in the eu. i would point out the need to use the fp7 cancer funding more effectively and the need for large-scale research programmes. it would also be important for the financial perspective to include funds to promote cancer prevention.
in writing. − knowing that cancer is growing almost epidemically worldwide despite medical progress, being one of the leading causes of death in the world, accounting for about 13% of all deaths in 2004 (about 1.7 million deaths every year); knowing that cancer was the second most common cause of death in 2006, with most deaths caused by lung, colorectal and breast cancer; and knowing, furthermore, that one in three europeans is faced with a lifelong cancer diagnosis and one in four europeans eventually dies from the disease, a new global approach to cancer is urgently needed. a clear commitment to prevention and national screening plans is needed, as we know that adequate prevention and early treatment will prevent about 30% of cancers. it is also essential to reduce inequalities in treatment, drawing attention to the unsustainable situation in portugal, where innovative and effective medicines for the treatment of cancer (in particular lung cancer and breast cancer) are being denied to patients for purely economic reasons.
in writing. − cancer is one of the biggest health challenges we face globally. today, with more than 3 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths each year, cancer is the second leading cause of death in europe. the european commission is proposing a european partnership for action against cancer for the period 2009-2013. as a social and political problem, cancer requires joint action at european, national, regional and local level. the lisbon treaty provides that the union has competence to develop actions to support, coordinate or supplement the action of the member states. one of the areas of these actions, in their european purpose, is the protection and improvement of human health (article 2e). the european union has already agreed on two important and proven preventive instruments: the european code against cancer and the council recommendations on breast cancer screening. i therefore welcome the recommendation in this resolution to mobilise the public sector at large to invest in a robust cancer prevention effort.
in writing. − cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide and its incidence is increasing at an alarming rate. we therefore consider it important that the eu supports the efforts of the member states to combat cancer, as highlighted in the report, and that it promotes a collective effort to share information, skills and expertise in the prevention and control of the disease. the reduction in cancer incidence rates in some countries as a result of policies to improve prevention and treatment shows that this is a way forward. the report addresses several important issues, including the need for primary prevention and control of diseases that can lead to cancer; the importance of screening; the insufficiency of the funding currently available for the fight against cancer in the eu - particularly public funding; the need to reduce occupational and environmental exposure to carcinogens; the need to update lists of carcinogens; the protection of cancer patients and chronic patients in the workplace. in other respects, it could have gone further. as in eliminating -- rather than reducing -- inequalities in access to cancer treatment and related care.
in writing. − public health is one of the eu's priorities. this is where the fight against all forms of cancer comes in, a disease which kills millions of european citizens every year. we all know that prevention and early diagnosis are fundamental to an effective fight against this disease, and therefore the vast majority of efforts should be focused on these two aspects. it is very important to make efforts to combat the three most deadly cancers, lung cancer, colorectal cancer and breast cancer, without neglecting all the others.
in writing. − information and communication technologies play a key role in promoting european economic growth. their influence in the energy sector also implies a profound change in our society, making it more decentralized, flexible where distribution is synonymous with greater wealth. the use of ict and network technologies allows for more efficient energy consumption, for example through the development of electricity distribution networks, smart buildings, smart meters and efficient transport. however, it is important to continue to use the opportunities for innovation that icts offer us. it is essential to develop an innovative european smart grid with instruments to measure and control energy efficiency by implementing smart metering, in accordance with the timetable set out in the third energy market package. consumers will thus be able to manage their energy consumption by balancing the demand curve. ict can also play an important role in measuring and quantifying the global effects of climate change and in evaluating climate protection measures, thus contributing to improving climate policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the use of information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient and low-carbon economy. information and communication technologies can play a significant role in mitigating the effects of climate change by reducing energy consumption, increasing energy efficiency and further integrating renewable energies.
in writing. − at a time when reducing co2 and greenhouse gas emissions and investing in renewable energy and green technologies are a priority, this report is extremely timely. the commission is therefore proposing measures to enable information and communication technologies to be used in order to make the transition to a more efficient energy economy possible at the lowest cost to citizens and businesses. the need to foster sustainable growth, reflected in the well-being of the population and the economy today, but also in solidarity for future generations, is truly crucial.
in writing. − information and communication technologies can make a significant contribution to the energy efficiency of the eu economy, particularly in the case of buildings and in the transport sector. in this context, i welcome the efforts made by the commission to promote smart meters and smart grids in energy production, distribution and use. i would particularly stress the call on member states to promote the availability of broadband internet to all eu citizens in order to ensure equal access to electronic services.
in writing. − the mobilisation of information and communication technologies can undoubtedly facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient economy, as this is also a way of reducing energy consumption, increasing energy security and contributing to reducing environmental damage, particularly greenhouse gas emissions. however, we know that there is a slowdown in progress and in the realisation of the potential of energy efficiency and energy saving, not only because of the maintenance of interests of existing economic groups, but also because of the lack of support for the changes that need to be made. we therefore support several of the proposals in the report, in particular those which encourage the use of icts in planning a new transport policy and increase its intermodality, those which urge the commission to take a different view of the priorities for support, taking into account these issues of the mobilisation of information and communication technologies to facilitate the transition to an energy-efficient economy in a number of areas such as industry, health, housing, as well as transport and mobility.
in writing. - i welcome the initiative of the european commission to present a general policy framework for european action on adaptation to climate change. however, mitigation and adaptation measures should not be dissociated. i would stress the importance of the eu ets directive, where member states are required to allocate part of the ets revenues to both mitigation and adaptation measures. i also believe that priority should be given to complementary measures to promote the community strategy to support the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, with the possibility of making this target legally binding at community level. among the adaptation measures presented, i would like to emphasise the solidarity between eu member states towards the less-favoured regions and the regions most affected by climate change, and it is therefore important that the commission considers increasing public funds allocated to international cooperation in the future. the commission has also launched a new r & d framework programme to support the fight against climate change. i would also stress the importance of the role of research and technology in the development of a low-carbon society, recalling the recent commission communication on the set-plan and the logic of intervention between the public and private sectors and between community, national and regional funding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the commission white paper entitled 'adaptation to climate change: towards a european framework for action'. adaptation measures are needed to address the challenges posed by climate change. i believe that adaptation to climate change is key and will allow us to improve the current emergency management systems, which could be made more efficient by combining satellite and ground-based observations.
in writing. - as i said yesterday on the vote on the spéphane le foll report on eu agriculture and climate change, 'environmental concerns, while legitimate and necessary, in the agricultural sector, must weigh the impact of proposals in terms of sustainability and agricultural productivity. " the same is true across sectors of activity, so it is essential that the eu develops a strategy to tackle climate change by making a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions without compromising productive activities, particularly industries. any policy on climate change, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, by putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive. the focus should be on clean energy, more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies, so that european competitiveness can be maintained and job creation enabled in a sustainable development framework.
in writing. − the eu must maintain its leadership and ambition in the fight against climate change. in this area, scientific study is essential both for combating and adapting to climate change so that we can take the right and safe path. the issue of adaptation is cross-cutting across a number of sectoral policies. there must therefore be greater political coordination in these areas by the member states. i am in favour of the obligation to have national adaptation plans based on a common european framework. in areas such as water, energy and forests, i believe we should have common european policies. i would like to reiterate the need for a european hazard map for the coastline. the risks posed by climate change to the most vulnerable regions of europe need to be addressed urgently. i also believe that there should be european targets for the efficiency of public water supply systems. i would also stress that natural ecosystems are the most important carbon sinks on earth, sequestering 50% of the world's annual greenhouse gas emissions and contributing to mitigation and adaptation.
in writing. - while i agree with the rapporteur that it is a positive development that the financial irregularities reported by the member states to the commission have decreased from eur 1024 million in 2007 to eur 783.2 million in 2008, i believe that the objective will be to reach a level of financial irregularities of eur 0 million per year. i consider it essential to adopt measures to ensure greater transparency in the fight against tax fraud, especially vat fraud, and all economic crime, greater cooperation between administrations in the case of fraud with a cross-border dimension, improved data quality and constant updating of national databases, as well as a rapid response by administrations to those requested for information. there should also be better administration and control of the implementation of the cohesion funds, and provision should be made for the application of sanctions to member states which do not make good use of these funds. i would also like to stress the role of the european anti-fraud office as a key contributor to the reduction of these figures.
in writing. − the 2008 annual report on the protection of the community's financial interests shows that the financial impact of irregularities as far as they were identified decreased from eur 1024 million to eur 783.2 million in 2008, with reductions in all spending sectors except direct expenditure and pre-accession funds. i would particularly stress the need to introduce information on irregularities which clarifies the proportion of the total resources that have been affected by errors and cases of suspected fraud. the fight against fraud and corruption is an important obligation of the european institutions and of all member states, which must provide all the resources necessary to combat these phenomena effectively, with a view to protecting the financial interests of the union and its taxpayers.
in writing. - in this time of economic and financial crisis, not a single euro in the eu budget can be wasted, let alone if it was caused by fraud, which leads to the improper payment of eu funds. over the years we have seen the amounts of irregularities decrease significantly. however, we can only be satisfied when these amounts are marginal or close to zero. the eu must adopt budgetary control mechanisms that are effective in preventing and detecting fraud in a timely manner so that funds are only made available when it is actually a question of the correct use of funds. this is without prejudice to any effective sanction against those who, by not complying with the rules, seek to misappropriate common resources which are scarce in nature.
in writing. − i welcome the eib's annual report 2008 and its activities to develop the european economy, to stimulate growth and employment and to promote interregional and social cohesion. i also welcome the importance the eib attaches to smes, sustainable energy, and climate change mitigation, as well as to investments in eu convergence regions particularly affected by the recent economic slowdown. in the face of the current global economic crisis, the eib has responded swiftly, in particular by supporting the european economic recovery plan and in favour of the member states most severely affected by the crisis. i would, however, ask that future reports include details of the large loans which complement erdf grants to regions implementing technologically advanced programmes, or programmes relating to the supply of renewable or green energy. similarly, the investment facility reports should include information on the results of the programmes financed. the european investment bank should play a more important role in supporting investment in infrastructure, green technologies, innovation and smes under the eu 2020 strategy by providing adequate funding.
in writing. - the european investment bank has a key role to play in helping member states cope with the severe economic, financial and social crisis. in this respect, i believe that the increase in funding, in particular for the european union's cohesion policy, has been crucial in reducing the impact of the crisis on the less-favoured and most affected regions. the increase in the fund for small and mediumsized enterprises, which represent the bulk of the european business community, and the greater importance of research and development funds have also helped to reduce the effects of the crisis. in view of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the current and future challenges facing the european union in a difficult economic and social situation, it is therefore essential to strengthen the eib's activities by increasing the transparency of its activities and setting the right priorities.
in writing. the european investment bank was set up by the treaty of rome in 1958. as the european union's long-term lending bank, the eib lends to the public and private sectors for projects of european interest, using the financial markets and its own funds. the bank's main objective is to contribute to the integration and sustainable development and to the economic and social cohesion of the eu member states. the eib faced unprecedented challenges in 2008 as the global crisis also hit the economies of the european union. in crisis management, i am pleased to note the eib's swift response to the global economic crisis by self-financing a capital increase and by consequently increasing the volume of loans granted in support of the european economic recovery plan. i therefore welcome the eib's annual report 2008 and the adoption of this report which encourages the eib to continue its activities in support of the development of the european economy and to stimulate growth, employment and the promotion of interregional and social cohesion.
in writing. − the eib's role in the eu economy is of great importance, as it is the guarantor of financing operations within europe which are concerned with: ensuring economic and social cohesion, preparing the knowledge economy, developing the trans-european transport networks and their access networks, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), contributing to the protection and improvement of the environment and ensuring the existence of sustainable, competitive and secure energy. the development of the europe 2020 strategy will not be possible without the support of the eib, which will have to provide the funds needed to develop projects in the areas of infrastructure, green technologies, innovation and smes.
in writing. - i regret with great regret the recent events in jos in january and march this year, where hundreds of people were victims of religious and ethnic clashes. at the root of the conflict in nigeria are religious, economic, ethnic, social, historical and political motives. sadly, nigeria, the eighth largest oil producer in the world, has a majority of its inhabitants living below the poverty line. the adverse consequences of climate change have also contributed to the deterioration of the situation in nigeria. i believe that the peaceful resolution of these conflicts must be achieved through equitable access to resources and the redistribution of revenues in an oil-rich country like nigeria. i call on the federal government of nigeria to ensure equal rights for all citizens and to combat the problems of control of fertile land, access to resources, unemployment, poverty and climate change mitigation. i call on the commission to continue the dialogue with nigeria under the cotonou agreement to address the root causes of the conflict, while addressing issues that are fundamental to sustainable development, such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and education.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the mass atrocities in jos, nigeria. i strongly condemn the recent violence in and around the city of jos due to ethnic and religious clashes, which has resulted in the deaths of hundreds of people. the eu must pursue political dialogue with nigeria in accordance with article 8 of the revised cotonou agreement and urgently address issues related to freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief as enshrined in universal, regional and national human rights instruments.
in writing. - this is not the first time that nigeria has been confronted with conflicts that threaten to tear it apart. i am reminded of the civil war which almost led to the independence of the south-west of the country and which raged for almost three years from 1967 to 1970. if the ibos' revolt was crushed at the time, and biafra's independence was thwarted by the military power of the central government, the truth is that ethnic, cultural and religious differences persist and grow in that african country, making it a classic case of a state under permanent threat of disintegration and whose borders, at the time of their definition by the colonial powers, did not take account of those disparities already mentioned. but this does not mean that the responsibility for the conflicts in nigeria lies primarily with the europeans. it is time for african leaders to abandon this bogus justification and seek to serve their citizens with lucidity and the capacity to design and propose. africa can be what africans aspire to be, as long as they have leaders who are up to the challenge. the jos massacres are yet another deeply sad, regrettable and bloody page in the history of a country that accumulates them at a too frequent pace.
madam president, it is important that this process is coming to an end, despite its limitations. it is time to guarantee all working women, including the millions of selfemployed women and the spouses and de facto partners of selfemployed women, equal rights, particularly in terms of maternity leave. although this directive is on the right track, it does not go all the way in combating discrimination and ensuring equal treatment. it is a positive step, which we support, but we do not want to stick to the 14 weeks of leave and we want the new directive on maternity and paternity to apply to these situations in the future. it is a struggle which we will of course continue, although we welcome the point we have reached at this stage and your rapporteur for her persistence throughout the process.
madam president, the directive needs to be revised urgently. this report is important because it will redress a situation of injustice and discrimination against selfemployed women and at the same time promote female entrepreneurship. from now on, selfemployed women and their spouses or partners are entitled to maternity allowance, which is the same in duration and remuneration as that for employed women. there is, however, a precondition: to contribute to social security. this is normal and fair, since women workers also contribute to social security. it is also considered to be a matter of basic justice that the right to maternity leave should not be restricted to the agricultural sector and should be extended to all selfemployed women, who, i recall, in 2007 represented 10.5% of the total number of women workers in the european union. i therefore said that it applies to all selfemployed women, wherever they work, whether in the craft sector, in commerce, in the professions, in small and mediumsized enterprises. we have to promote equality and so i hope that the european parliament will support the proposals that have already been adopted by the committee on women's rights and gender equality.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would also like to start by congratulating mrs ţicău on her work and persistence on this very important dossier and on the work she has done to improve the energy performance of buildings and to make europe more sustainable. the energy expenditure in the european union, as we know, is far above what is acceptable, and that is why it is so important to put forward proposals of this kind. it is high time we had an ambitious policy in european terms and added to this ambitious policy complementary measures, especially in the crisis situation we are living in. the construction sector is considered one of the sectors, one of the markets with the greatest potential in terms of energy savings, but that's not all. it is not just that, mr president, and that is why it is the sector par excellence for the formulation of public policies. we must therefore seize this opportunity to invest in the energy efficiency of buildings and their potential to create millions of jobs in the years ahead. and it's not just in new buildings, but also in the rehabilitation and recovery of existing buildings that are degraded or inadequate. let us therefore use this legislation as a key contribution to the revival of the european economy and we cannot continue to waste the investment, which can and must be strategic, for the recovery from the crisis and let us hope that there is investment from the commission and that the member states know how to take advantage of this investment.
mr president, commissioner, the building sector is responsible for 40% of the eu's energy consumption and 35% of its emissions. this legislation provides that by 2020 new buildings must have a near-zero energy consumption and that existing buildings renovated must meet minimum energy performance requirements. this legislation will thus contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence, to reducing co2 emissions, to improving indoor and outdoor air quality and to increasing well-being in cities. encouraging better energy performance in buildings also represents an opportunity to re-skill our cities, contributing to tourism, job creation and sustainable economic growth in the eu. however, the requalification requires increased public and private investment. this is a local public investment with a direct effect on job creation and the involvement of smes. a programme to re-skill our cities will be a safe programme, suitable for the relaunch of our economy. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to use the structural funds to upgrade buildings to environmental and energy-efficient standards, using this funding as a catalyst for private funding, and to work together to find the right financing model for the refurbishment of existing buildings.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr manders on his work on this report and thanking the colleagues who have collaborated with him on this dossier. in fact, the very fact that this proposal simplifies and improves the existing regulatory framework, that it brings together all existing legislation - three basic directives on the designation and labelling of textile products - in a single regulation is in itself an important fact. but in addition, this proposal will have a positive impact on private actors and public authorities and will also allow the framing of newly developed fibres, thus encouraging innovation in the textile and clothing sector. this review will also enhance the transparency of the process of adding new fibres to the list of harmonised names for fibres. there seems to be no doubt that the agents involved will benefit from this regulation. let us see: the textile industry will benefit from a saving in administrative costs and the possibility of bringing the new fibres to market earlier. the member states' authorities will not have to transpose the amendments into national law, which will allow for significant cost savings for those member states. and consumers will have the assurance that the named fibres have specific characteristics, while also benefiting from the fact that the new fibres will reach the market earlier. the introduction of these new fibres is important for european industry as a means of promoting innovation while also increasing the level of information provided to consumers. in today's globalised world, with emerging economies and ever-widening markets in which millions of products produced by millions of companies circulate, the focus on innovation and the speed with which it reaches consumers is absolutely crucial for companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. the application of this regulation could increase their competitiveness. these small and mediumsized enterprises will certainly gain market share from this new regulation and will thus contribute to the increase in employment in europe.
mr president, this debate on the designation of origin for the labelling of textile and clothing products is very important in defending the rights of consumers, but also the workers and production in the textile and clothing industry in our countries. we want to fight social dumping, child labour, social rights and a good quality of the environment. the labelling must allow consumers a clear choice and a commitment to a better future for all, both here in the european union and in other countries, and it is through this process of clearly labelling the origin and content of the products that we can have a more conscious choice and a contribution to a better future.
the european union's policies and action in various fields are often at odds with the stated objectives of development aid. the liberalization and deregulation of world trade, which the european union has advocated and pursued, threatens the weaker productive systems of the developing countries. we cannot ignore the fact that a large part of the funds allocated to these countries as official development aid eventually return to the countries of origin in the form of the purchase of goods and services. we cannot ignore the heavy burden of the enormous external debt, which has been paid off many times, and which must therefore be cancelled. the blackmail that has been applied to a number of developing countries, which consists in making public aid dependent on the signing of the so-called economic partnership agreements, is unacceptable, despite the resistance and concerns expressed by many of these countries. the priorities of the european development fund should not be imposed. they should be reviewed in the light of the views, priorities and real needs of developing countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european people's party is committed to budgetary rigor, transparency and sustainability. in this respect, we welcome the work done by the administration to specify fixed and variable expenditure and the fact that it has presented a medium-term strategy with regard to real estate policy. we nevertheless consider that these documents can be improved in the future and recall that we advocate a long-term real estate strategy. we are ambitious in terms of rigor and therefore want to move towards a zero-based budget where every expenditure is justified. we also propose that progress be made in this direction, that a cost-benefit analysis be carried out in relation to variable costs. we are in favour of possible savings and therefore support - and we ourselves have suggested - reductions in certain headings. legislative excellence is the main objective to be achieved by parliament. we all know that not having adequate legislation, or having bad legislation, always comes at a high cost, a cost which is ultimately always borne by the european citizens. in order to cope with the new competences resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and to achieve this objective, to achieve legislative excellence, we support the possibility of recruiting new human resources, which we want and require to be of high quality. i would also remind you that we are going to have 18 new members and that they too must have the conditions necessary to carry out their mandate properly. we are living in a time of great demands where the european institutions have a fundamental role, a crucial role, and cannot fail, and for this they must have the sufficient means at their disposal. we know that there can always be a lot of populism around budgetary questions, there can always be a lot of demagogy, which we reject. some even suggest that there are increases in the allocation of funds to members, which is not true. the aim is to have enough money to ensure that this parliament has the dignity that we all want and achieves the objective that the citizens expect, that the european citizens demand of us, which is legislative excellence.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by recalling that this parliament has already criticised the enormous delays in the development of the sis ii project. on 22 october 2009, we adopted a resolution on the schengen ii information system and the visa information system. parliament reiterated its deep concern at the delays in the start of operations and asked the commission and the council to provide information on the results of the technical tests, calling for full transparency in the sis ii implementation process. sis ii was supposed to have started operations in 2007. it's 2010 and no one can guarantee when it will be completed. the package of proposals we are considering raises four fundamental questions. first, when should this migration take place? before sis ii can become operational, it should be personally tested in order to assess whether the system is able to function in accordance with the technical and functional requirements laid down in the respective legal instruments. only after successful completion of all tests will it be possible to migrate from sis i to sis ii. are the tests complete? question number two. no, in view of the enormous delay in the project and all the problems and difficulties encountered, the council decided to carry out two 'milestones' tests. the first in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the second in the summer of 2010. however, the first test had to be postponed until the end of january as the necessary requirements had not been met. the test took place between 21 and 24 january 2010. apparently the system worked for the first 25 hours, but for the rest of the test, the system was markedly unstable. this test was again carried out between 2 and 5 march. the final evaluation and validation of the repeat tests took place on 6 april. although the conditions of the tests were not fully met by either the member states or the contractor and although the limited number of transfers did not meet the required response times, the vast majority of member states concluded that these were insignificant deviations and that the broad objectives of the tests had been achieved. the new overall timetable and budgetary plan are expected to be adopted by the next council in june or by october 2010 at the latest. it was also considered essential that the following conditions be met before the system starts operations. the milestone ii test shall have been successfully conducted in full compliance with the conditions of operation. the overall test provided for in article 55 of the regulation must also have been successfully completed and the safety of the network must finally be fully guaranteed. thirdly, why is there such urgency in approving these initiatives? although the necessary conditions for migration are not met and there is no indication of when this will happen, the mandate given to the commission for the development of sis ii will once again expire on 30 june 2010. we therefore have to amend the expiry clauses of the migration instruments adopted in 2008 in order to avoid their expiry. fourth and final question. what aspects of the proposals have i tried to change? first, the existence of a time-bar. the commission had not proposed it. we propose that it be fixed at 31 december 2013. in addition, given the considerable delays, it is essential to establish in the legal basis that whatever technical solution is chosen, it must be based on the best available technology, respect a reasonable timetable and be acceptable in terms of cost-effectiveness. the creation of the global programme management board and its formal integration into its management of sis ii. i am deeply convinced that if this body had existed from the beginning, we would have been able to achieve better coordination, more knowledge and more efficiency. finally, i think it is essential that the migration process be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. parliament is not only responsible for the legal basis, but as budgetary authority it ensures the supervision of actions financed by the union budget. i therefore tabled an amendment with my colleague alexander alvaro to put the funds in reserve and with mr alexander alvaro, mrs sarah ludford, mr ioan encieu and mrs monika hohlmeir, a request for an audit to the european court of auditors. thank you all for your excellent cooperation.
the rapporteur. - ladies and gentlemen, there are refugees in the world who cannot return to their country because the situation is too unstable, or who cannot stay in a transit country because it has not signed the geneva conventions and cannot, for example, work in that country. the numbers are relatively limited: 200,000 a year, and some of these refugees, who have no other option but to be given the possibility of a new life in a third country, some of them have already had their problem solved through international actors who are resettling, the united states who are doing 80,000 a year, canada, australia, brazil and chile. what's missing from this painting? europe is missing. and in good time the council, under its swedish presidency, admitted that the numbers of refugees to be resettled in europe had to be greatly increased, going so far as to speak of the figure of 100 000 and in good time the commission revised some of the european refugee fund's statements to make possible a more vigorous and robust policy for the resettlement of refugees. i have two reports at the moment on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, one on codecision and one on own initiative. in the area of codecision we have, to correct the policies that are currently in place, four new features, two are of content, two are procedural. the first innovation is a dual approach. the commission proposal we are working on is mainly about regional priorities and then, within the regional priorities, what i would call humanitarian priorities. we thought it right to maintain these priorities, but to give them autonomy, that is to say, we think that europe should have intervention strategies in terms of the resettlement of refugees, which are very important from the point of view of foreign policy, which sometimes allow intervention in certain areas of the world, opening the doors of a certain country or establishing relations of trust in certain areas of the world, but at the same time giving member states the freedom to go to situations in the rest of the world which are priority in humanitarian terms. and what are those? victims of torture, or women and children who are victims of sexual violence, or people who need resettlement for serious health reasons, for example. secondly, the modulation. this is to go from the 10 member states which are currently resettling at european level to the 27 member states which are trying to do so. to this end, we have proposed that the amount to be allocated per refugee to the new member states be increased in the first year, slightly reduced in the second year and equal to all other member states making resettlement from the third year onwards, on the condition that this increased amount in the first years - which are the years when it costs the most to set up the new resettlement programme - be used for the development of a sustainable resettlement programme. the other two new features are procedural: the commission has a very good idea of what it is doing, and i think it is important that we should be able to do that, because it is a very important matter, and i think that the commission has a very good idea of what it is doing, because it is a very important matter, and i think that the commission has a very good idea of what it is doing. what we cannot accept is that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, tells us that delegated acts to which it has no legal objection should not be adopted in the framework of this important foreign and humanitarian policy decision, just because it seems to them that they are bureaucratic when we say that they are not. the fact is that this decision is part of our view and the view of the legal service of delegated acts and therefore as such we believe that it is incumbent on the commission to defend the adoption of delegated acts here as guardian of the treaties and not to raise objections to them which are at this moment merely procedural, and above all we believe that none of these issues should prevent us from reaching what is our common objective, which is to resettle more refugees in the european union.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all members for their support and comments on these two different, but very important, subjects. starting with the sis ii, this has of course – and i am the first to recognise this – been a long saga, as somebody said. it is a complex dossier and very difficult. probably there were things that could have been done better in the past, but since i took up office i have really tried to deal with this in a very transparent and thorough way. the commission has followed, to the letter, the road map outlined by the council, and the council agreed on conclusions at the last meeting. some member states were sceptical, but they did agree on the conclusion that the milestone 1 test was successful. right now we are working with the different experts in order to assess and to define the final requirements of member states to meet their operational needs and to define a more concrete timetable and way forward. i will make this proposal on 3 and 4 june to the ministers for discussion and there will be a further assessment of this after the summer. we will of course be transparent and work with the european parliament and the rapporteur all the time. to answer the question on the new member states, the accession of bulgaria and romania will be done via sis i for all. arrangements for bulgaria and romania are being made for that in the mean time. we are preparing for a – hopefully successful – milestone 2 test on sis later this autumn. until that is successfully complete we have contacts and ways open in order to maintain the contingency plan for the future. we hope it will not be needed but we have made that preparation as well. in the mean time, let me thank all members, especially mr coelho, for your support and assure you of the maximum transparency and engagement on the part of the commission with the european parliament on this dossier. on the issue of resettlement, i fully agree with mr busuttil, who said that he was surprised that this did not exist before. it is of course a very good initiative to pool the resources of the member states and to encourage further engagement on the global scene in order to alleviate pressure in refugee camps following a crisis or a very difficult situation. we can inspire member states to make more intelligent use of the funds and to coordinate this with unhcr. this is of course something that could really reinforce our role on the global scene, but also make a real difference for these people who are caught in a very difficult situation. unhcr estimates there was a need for resettlement, last year alone, for 747 000 people. as mr flautre said, what we can do is a help but the needs are enormous. i think there is broad agreement on the aim and the purpose of this fund and i hope we can find a solution to the procedural issues very soon so the proposal can be adopted without delay. several members made reference to internal solidarity. this is of course related, but is a slightly different subject. i recognise the need for this as well. the commission has already made proposals in this regard. we have proposed a temporary suspension mechanism in the dublin regulation and we have established the european support office that will open in malta later this year. we have the malta pilot project and are evaluating this. i agree that we should try to find ways to make it more permanent and to involve more member states. this is of course subject to the willingness of member states to contribute, but the commission will look at this and we will also look at a general intra-eu solidarity mechanism and present that next year. so we can come back to this discussion, which is slightly different from the eu resettlement programme but nevertheless very important. thank you very much to mr coelho, mr tavares and mr alvaro for your work on these two very important dossiers. i am looking forward to working with you to conclude them as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much for the kind references from several colleagues. commissioner malmström, i want you to know that parliament is aware that you have inherited this process and we trust in your ability and your intelligence to give it the best result. we also appreciate the efforts you have made to ensure transparency, which were also very well emphasized by mr enciu. as regards the deadline, it is a bad sign for us if the new migration instruments do not have a deadline. after all the delays, it makes no sense to extend the commission's mandate indefinitely. i understand that the commission is not in a position to commit itself to the time limit that parliament suggests, but we will set it and if for some reason the procedure is not completed by then, it will come back to parliament asking for an extension of the time limit and explaining why it is necessary. now, to extend the commission's mandate without any deadline after these delays is a bad sign, both for the institutions and for the european citizens. i share your view that the global programme management board should not be an assembly. i therefore understand the commission's reluctance to restrict access to its work. i couldn't agree more. the parliament's proposal was the result of a less happy wording of the commission's original proposal, because the commission, while limiting the composition of the global programme management board, allowed any other official of the commission or the council or the member states to participate, which raises a legitimate question: why can all officials of the commission and the member states do this, but not those of parliament? if we limit this body to its functions, i think we can all agree, especially with the commissioner's assurances of greater transparency.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i thank the members who took part in this debate, and i thank the commissioner. i think that if there is some convergence of will here on the issue of resettling refugees, it's because we understand that we have, which is rare, in the immigration debate -- which we all know how difficult it is in europe -- and in the asylum and refugee debate, we have a problem that we can solve. we can do it for ourselves and we can do it for the refugees, because anyone who has visited refugee camps and knows that there are children who are losing a year and another year and another year of study that they could be doing in europe, i think gives us the right dimension of the urgency of this debate. and i also hope that the procedural issues will be quickly overcome, in accordance with what is written in the treaties, because we all know that what we have is not enough and we all know that a budget line alone is not yet a real refugee resettlement programme. this is the kind of subject we are dealing with in the owninitiative report which we are also discussing here today and which has to do with quality - and i am not saying that quality is a matter of principle - but rather a matter of principle. the quality of integration of refugees is very important, and it involves a multilateral approach that involves ngos, that involves local actors, that involves municipalities, and it also involves solving many of the bureaucratic coordination problems that we still have today. if these children who are in refugee camps and are not already studying and who would be entitled to be resettled take a long time in their process - we are told by border officials from several member states - it is because it takes a long time, for example, for the member states to coordinate the validation of transit documents, and this can be done mainly through an instrument which we suggested in the owninitiative report, which is to be implemented at the level of the asylum support office, which is a resettlement unit with a small number of officials but with people who are permanently working on resettlement, who know how to exchange good practices, who know how to introduce new member states resettlement mechanisms and who know how to coordinate with the european external action service in the future to facilitate resettlement processes. once we have decided that these people will be resettled there is no reason for us to delay dealing with paperwork, dealing with bureaucracy, before we can actually deal with their integration on european soil.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to point out, madam president, that we are discussing the first report from the committee on agriculture to be subject to the new ordinary legislative procedure provided for by the treaty of lisbon. this is a historic moment which, if this house confirms the vote i am proposing, will give the best start to this new period of shared competence in agricultural matters in the european union. it does so by co-legislating on its outermost regions, in a practical demonstration of the will to build a union that is strengthened by cohesion, in the spirit of active solidarity, with respect for the specificities and differences of its parts, as the only viable way of building our common european project. it does so by introducing fundamental regulations to make the century-old sugar cane in the azores viable, a region from which i come and for which i am particularly pleased, thus contributing to a healthy diversification of agriculture in a region where the milk cane, as we know, has a unique, irreplaceable, national dimension which we must stabilise and consolidate. i would like to thank commissioner ciolos and the senior officials of the commission with whom we have worked and negotiated for the openness and flexibility they have shown. the spanish presidency of the council has also made every effort to ensure that our shared desire to reach an agreement at first reading is fulfilled. this thanks is obviously extended to the shadow members of the other political groups and to the excellent staff of the secretariat of the committee on agriculture of this parliament, whose collaboration has enabled us to reach a result which i consider very positive. i would also like to underline the decisive contribution made by the azorean agricultural federation, the regional and republican governments in the way they have been involved and committed to finding a solution for azorean sugar. the presentation of the proposal for a council regulation on 2 october in the committee on agriculture came at a time when there was no prospect of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which was still awaiting ratification by all the member states. in this context, the initial idea of the commission and the council was that the proposal should be adopted under the simplified procedure without any amendments, with effect from 1 january 2010. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and despite the prevailing opinion at the time on the part of other political groups, as well as the council and the commission, that the proposal should continue under the simplified procedure - because they felt that the proposal did not need amendments and should enter into force quickly - despite the prevailing opinion, i and the socialist and democratic group believe that parliament should take a position within the framework of the treaty of lisbon, assuming its role as co-legislator. we did so at the right time, because from that point on new possibilities were opened up, first with the contribution of the committee on regional development and the opinion of my colleague nuno teixeira - whom i take the opportunity to congratulate and thank for his cooperation throughout this whole process - and then with my report introducing the new possibilities for sugar in the azores, as well as with the contribution and support of my colleagues from the committee on agriculture. i would like to say, finally, in this first speech that as regards the amendments proposed by the regi committee and voted on in the agri committee, which i support, we have not succeeded in accepting them in the compromise reached in the trilogue. it was essential to obtain a compromise at first reading, thus safeguarding the improvements already achieved and the need for rapid entry into force so as not to commit to its retroactivity from january this year. however, since the commission is already preparing a posei review paper, we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss them again soon.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr luís paulo alves, on his work, especially on the ability he has shown in incorporating the various contributions he has received, which are nothing more than respect for the interests of the various outermost regions covered. as rapporteur for the opinion of the regi committee, i am pleased that all the proposed amendments have been accepted by the rapporteur and voted in favour of in the agri committee. these proposals are objectively aimed at improving and correcting inadequate and anachronistic aspects of the existing rules, of which i would stress the fact that the maximum quantities of exports and dispatches of processed products which have benefited from posei aid are now calculated on the basis of the average of the years 1989 to 1991. i hope that the commission and the council will be able to read parliament's position on the basis of the assumption that the report will be adopted and will not use any possible future revision of the posei rules as an excuse for not accepting parliament's positions and the proposed amendments, which are of the greatest importance for the regions concerned.
on behalf of the epp group. the outermost regions, because of their permanent natural handicaps, lack a specific approach from the european union to the best conditions for the development of their socioeconomic activities. when it comes to regions heavily dependent on agriculture, as is the case with the azores, particular attention is required in this sector. it is in this context that we welcome the present report on specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions, which is quite satisfactory in the version voted by the committee on agriculture and rural development and now, after the trilogue, inexorably penalizes the working conditions of the sugar industry, whose export permitting touches the merely symbolic. at a time when diversification of agriculture is gaining expression as one of the ways of minimizing recurrent crises in the sector, i regret that this report does not express the confidence and encouragement that sugar beet production and the associated industry in são miguel lacked.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this suppression, against which we have fought and will continue to fight, supporting the struggle of the dairy farmers, will have very serious consequences for a key productive sector of the azores economy. consequences which the measures now proposed for the sugar processing industry are unlikely to mitigate, contrary to what is suggested, all the more so when it is already proposed that they should also be phased out. after these five years, what will be left? it is also important to take into account that the process of converting vineyards is significantly delayed, particularly in the case of madeira, and may even be compromised if incentives are not strengthened. the constraints and constraints affecting the outermost regions are permanent. in this respect, recognition of the specific nature of these regions must be translated into a set of permanent support measures rather than into a set of casual and time-limited questions. in the present socioeconomic context, it is quite right that community support for the agricultural sector in favour of the outermost regions should be maintained and strengthened.
mr president, in this debate on the specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and all those who have worked on this subject and to point out that the amendments, which are often technical and specific, do not bring about substantive changes. however, to draw attention to the question of sugar and sugar production in the azores and also to draw attention to a deeper problem. the outermost regions, such as the azores, which i recently visited, are very closely linked to the agricultural sector. the question of milk quotas is particularly important in the azores. milk production and the way it is regulated is of particular importance to hundreds of producers and to many azoreans, and that is why i would like to draw attention at this point in the plenary session to the need to find solutions which take account of the specific situation of these regions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in this last speech i would like to stress the importance of updating regulation (ec) no 247/2006. however, the developments since its adoption in 2006, both in the legislative field and in the field of its application, as well as in the development of the actual situation, have made it necessary to introduce amendments in order to ensure that, in an up-to-date form, it continues to be an important instrument for adapting certain community policies in the agricultural field to the specificities of the outermost regions, as provided for in articles 349 and 107 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. let me briefly list the improvements achieved: in the canary islands, milk-based preparations considered as traditional products for local consumption are no longer subject to a time limit; the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the processing of milk powder. in madeira, this same exception is renewed in these new forms and wine produced from hybrid varieties of direct producers can be consumed in the region. the azores will see the sugar re-dispatching derogation reintroduced and extended, both in quantity and in time, and will also benefit from the aforementioned provisions for wood in wine. these measures, which apply retroactively from 1 january 2010 and do not impede free competition in our single market, make a major contribution to the economies of these regions, whose natural fragility makes them even more vulnerable in a time of deep crisis. finally, i should like to say that with the adoption of this report, and in addition to the opportunity given to agricultural diversification, the possibilities of re-dispatching that were forbidden have been restored. it is also important to remember that, thanks to its adoption, we will be able, in a period of very severe economic crisis, to make a decisive contribution to restructuring and maintaining in the azores not only several dozen jobs but also the technical know-how linked to the activity of the agro-industrial sugar industry.
rapporteur. − madam president, this is just a brief of explanation of what we are going to vote on. in november last year, here in strasbourg, when we were discussing the approval of four previous macro-financial assistance proposals regarding other countries, the commission promised us that, under the lisbon treaty and until the adoption of a framework regulation for macro-financial assistance, all future individual proposals for such assistance would be subject to codecision by parliament and the council. now, only six months later, you have in front of you not only a proposal for a co-decided decision, but also a first-reading agreement with the council. in trying to reach that agreement, we were operating under a very tight timetable. therefore i would like to express my recognition and gratitude to the spanish presidency, the council and the commission, as well as to the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on international trade and everybody involved for their positive and constructive approach. under the proposed decision, ukraine could get a loan of up to eur 500 million in order to finance its balance of payments deficit and meet external financing needs. this loan would supplement imf support and the eu assistance of eur 110 million that was agreed back in 2002 but has not yet been disbursed. during our informal trialogue negotiations, parliament insisted on keeping references to certain disbursement conditions that were important for us, such as the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the assistance. we also insisted on the importance of parliament being kept duly informed about the actual implementation of the assistance. (applause)in protecting our institutional prerogatives, we also resisted demands to introduce a management committee procedure for implementing measures so that finally an advisory committee… (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. - this proposal is part of the union's legislative efforts to create a european asylum system. this european support office should thus provide specialised assistance to the member states and contribute to the implementation of a coherent and high-quality common european asylum policy. the creation of this new office will undoubtedly add value to the strengthening of mutual trust and the sharing of responsibilities between the member states. it should facilitate the exchange of information, analysis and experience between them, organise training and develop practical cooperation between the administrations responsible for examining asylum applications. it is important to address the significant differences in the decision-making process of the 27 member states with regard to applications for international protection and to achieve a degree of convergence in the way member states analyse and respond to such applications. i support the rapporteur's proposal to include the provision of resettlement support. i agree that the financing of this new agency in its early stages should be ensured by the necessary budgetary changes to the european refugee fund.
in writing. - the issues surrounding immigration and, in particular, the right of asylum are particularly sensitive. the granting or not of this right to non-eu citizens can have dramatic implications for their lives and therefore requires seriousness, attention and particular humanity. i think it is common sense that neither an open door policy, without any criteria restricting access to the union's space, is acceptable, nor is a policy of absolute entry bans tolerable. a fair balance is needed which seeks to reconcile the legitimate interests and concerns of nationals of the member states with the needs of those who seek them. in this regard, the establishment of a european asylum support office can be an important step towards the adoption of best practices, the strengthening of trust between states and the consequent improvement in the exchange of information. however, i cannot help stressing that the member states must continue to have a margin of discretion as to whether or not they will accept those who wish to enter their borders, and that the eu must not hide the fact that the member states do not have absolutely convergent interests in this matter.
in writing. − the european asylum support office aims to provide specialist assistance contributing to the implementation of a coherent and high-quality common european asylum policy. this office will develop mutual trust and responsibility-sharing and will be responsible for coordinating the exchange of information and other resettlement actions developed by the member states. as a promoter of the values of human dignity, which are fundamental elements of freedom, democracy and socioeconomic development, the european union must, in the context of the current world situation, also take a pioneering and exemplary approach to asylum. the creation of a european office to support the member states in this area of intervention with third country nationals will be crucial for the implementation of a common european asylum policy, reinforcing the co-responsibility and solidarity of the member states in a coherent action and in accordance with the values and principles of the european construction project. i call for the necessary mechanisms and resources to be provided quickly for the establishment of the support office.
in writing. − in such a sensitive area of human rights, the creation of a european asylum support office is important because it allows for specialised assistance at eu level to help define a coherent and high-quality common european asylum policy. hence my vote.
in writing. − the construction sector accounts for 40% of energy consumption and 35% of emissions in the eu. this legislation provides that by 2020 new buildings must have a near-zero energy consumption and that existing renovated buildings must meet minimum energy performance requirements. this legislation will thus contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence, to reducing co2 emissions, to improving indoor and outdoor air quality and to increasing well-being in cities. encouraging better energy performance in buildings is also an opportunity to re-skill our cities, contributing to tourism, job creation and sustainable economic growth in the eu. however, the requalification requires increased public and private investment. we are dealing with local public investment with a direct effect on job creation and the involvement of smes, a programme for the requalification of cities will be a suitable programme for the relaunch of the economy. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to use the structural funds to requalify buildings for environmental and energy purposes, to act as a catalyst for private finance and to work together to find the right financing model for the refurbishment of existing buildings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation on the energy performance of buildings because it presents ambitious and feasible proposals for a 20% reduction in energy consumption and co2 emissions in sectors not covered by the emissions trading system by 2020. this directive will have a direct impact on the lives of european citizens, as it will help consumers to reduce their energy costs and, at the same time, can contribute to the creation of millions of jobs across the eu through planned investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy.
in writing. − in 2008, europe committed itself to achieving a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 at the latest and to ensuring that 20% of its energy consumption comes from renewable sources. improving the energy efficiency of buildings is the most effective way to reduce energy consumption and emissions by 20% in sectors not covered by the emissions trading system. in addition, efficient buildings provide an average energy saving of 30% compared to conventional buildings. on 13 november 2008, the commission presented its proposal to amend directive 2002/91/ec on the energy performance of buildings. these changes will have significant impacts on the lives of european citizens, as they will have immediate consequences on the buildings in which they live and will create the need for research and development of more efficient technologies in the construction sector. in addition, this strategy will create jobs and contribute to sustainable growth. as the current wording is based on the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council in november 2009, i support the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. − the adoption of this directive on the energy performance of buildings is an important step towards reducing co2 emissions and europe's energy dependence. they are increasingly decisive for the quality of life of european citizens and for the competitiveness of our economy and our social organisation. considering that the construction sector accounts for 40% of energy consumption and 35% of total co2 emissions, energy self-sufficiency of new buildings and improvement of the energy performance of renovated buildings are of decisive importance for the european union to achieve its 2020 target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption and a 20% increase in the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. in addition to helping private consumers and public services to reduce energy costs, the implementation of this new legislation is expected to help combat the crisis in the construction sector and contribute to the development of urban redevelopment policies, which will have a positive impact on the improvement of the quality of life and well-being of citizens.
in writing. − improving the energy performance of buildings is of particular importance in increasing overall energy efficiency in the eu and reducing ghg emissions. if the european union is to meet its proposed targets of reducing energy consumption by 20%, ensuring that 20% of energy consumption comes from renewable sources and increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, it will have to invest heavily in the best energy performance of buildings. the political agreement reached between parliament and the council results in clarification of technical aspects, minimum requirements for energy performance according to the age of the building with or without renovation, enhancing the role of local and regional authorities and supporting public authorities in implementing recommendations. but we still have some concerns about the commission's increased role in the evaluation of national inspection plans and reports, and the adaptations to the lisbon treaty which centralize more power in the commission through so-called delegated acts.
in writing. − the issue of energy efficiency is a key issue in the context of the 'strategy 2020'. this approval is a very important step towards reducing energy consumption over the next few years, towards nearly zero energy buildings by 2020. efforts must be made not only when new buildings are constructed but also when major renovations are made to existing buildings. it will also be decisive that a good example can be set in public building. hence my vote.
in writing. - only through a common asylum policy and a joint resettlement programme can we pursue a genuine human rights policy in the eu. resettlement is undoubtedly one of the lasting solutions for refugees whose protection cannot be guaranteed in the countries of first asylum. it is important that adequate funds are made available, although a single budget line cannot be considered a genuine resettlement policy. i have no doubt that this amendment to the refugee fund will be important, as it will help to fill a gap that exists in several member states and improve their reception capacity. i am pleased to see that the number of member states participating in this programme has increased in recent years and it is important that we can encourage the others to participate. this resettlement instrument must be further developed and extended by the eu in order to provide the most effective protection possible. the commission will thus have the capacity to set common eu priorities for resettlement on an annual basis, which may be based on specific geographical regions, nationalities or categories of refugees to be hosted, although it agrees that flexibility should be guaranteed to respond to emergency situations.
in writing. − the need to resettle refugees is becoming increasingly important in a europe that does not want to be closed to the outside world or blind to what is happening outside it. the capacity to welcome and to show solidarity with those who suffer the most are two european characteristics of christian inspiration which should be fully restored, without however neglecting the legitimate limits defined by the member states. indeed, the eu's common annual priorities in terms of geographical regions, but also of specific categories of refugees to be hosted, cannot fail to take account of the needs of states and their particular circumstances and their participation in resettlement actions should be encouraged.
in writing. − one of the 'actions eligible' for the european refugee fund (erf) is resettlement. the stockholm programme advocates that the eu should act in partnership and cooperate with third countries that receive large numbers of refugees. the european commission shall annually define common eu priorities for persons to be resettled, and this definition should allow for sufficient flexibility to respond to emergency situations. attention should be paid in particular to the victims of the most repressive and discriminatory cultural, social and political systems. the number of member states participating in eu resettlement programmes has been growing continuously and should be extended to as many member states as possible. i stress the positive impact of the scale of financial amounts to be made available in resettlement support, with a higher amount in the first and second years of the process, in the face of the higher costs that naturally accompany the creation of mechanisms and structures, as well as the importance of ensuring conditions to ensure the best sustainability and quality of the refugee resettlement process.
in writing. - currently only 10 eu member states, including portugal, accept the resettlement of refugees. refugee resettlement is a procedure whereby member states take in third-country nationals or stateless persons who are transferred from a third country to an eu state, following a request from the unhcr, on the basis of the need for international protection of such persons. the aim of this approval is to increase the number of ms taking refugees on board. to this end, member states applying for the first time will receive an increase in the amount of financial assistance for the first two years. priority should be given to the resettlement of children and women at risk of violence or psychological, physical or sexual exploitation, unaccompanied minors, persons with special medical needs, survivors of violence and torture and persons in need of emergency resettlement for legal and protection reasons, irrespective of the geographical priorities that the eu has set for a given period.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the proposed amendments to this regulation. the data migration phase is the last task to be carried out under the sis ii development mandate. this justifies the need to give the european commission a valid mandate for the development of the system until it starts operations. in view of the considerable delays already experienced and the high costs associated with the sis ii project, i believe that the expiry clause should be maintained. the new mandate given to the commission should be defined in relation to the date foreseen for the start of operations of sis ii, which is the end of 2011. the commission should, however, be allowed some flexibility to extend the dates through the comitology process in order to adapt the legal framework to an alternative scenario in case sis ii is not successful. the commission's failure to set a likely date for the sis ii to become operational is unacceptable as it depends on it to guarantee greater security, freedom and justice in the european area and raises questions about the lack of transparency in the way the process has been managed.
in writing. - the special sensitivity of this subject justifies the report being attributed to one of the members of the house who has been most active on this subject, mr carlos coelho, whom i commend for his work. regretting the delays in this process, i share your caution about the success of the migration process and your understanding of the european parliament's right to be informed of developments.
in writing. − the increase in the number of member states has seriously complicated the process of transition and migration between the schengen information systems and the second generation schengen information system. parliament has been demanding, and rightly so, accurate and up-to-date information on the development of this dossier. i hope that migration will be as effective as possible and that this change will not under any circumstances undermine european security and will be satisfactory.
in writing. - it is essential that the european union has a fair and realistic migration policy. i therefore welcome an effective, high-quality and sustainable resettlement programme that provides a lasting solution for refugees who cannot return to their country of origin. the resettlement programme can help to make illegal immigration less attractive to refugees seeking to enter the european union. the success of an effective resettlement initiative depends on access to job opportunities for adults and immediate school integration for minors. for this reason, easy access to educational and vocational guidance services is essential. the accompanying measures should be carried out by various public sector entities (e.g. municipalities) and civil society, such as ngos, charities, schools and social services, and it is essential to promote cooperation between these entities. i call on the member states to promote the creation of private financing mechanisms and more widespread public-private initiatives to support the european resettlement programme.
in writing. − it is positive that the number of member states participating in these resettlement programmes has been increasing in recent years. however, only 10 member states resettle refugees annually, without any coordination between them or a common eu resettlement strategy. it is important that there is solidarity between member states and a fair sharing of responsibilities in the fulfilment of international obligations. an effective and sustainable european resettlement programme will bring benefits to resettled refugees, to member states and to the eu itself, and will give it a prominent role in the international humanitarian arena. a multilateral approach is desirable, involving all relevant actors at local and international level, without forgetting the key role of unhcr. an effective eu resettlement programme should provide protection and lasting solutions and the establishment of cooperation and coordination mechanisms between member states should allow for an exchange of best practices, create a common strategy and reduce the costs of resettlement operations. i support the rapporteur's proposal - rui tavares, whom i congratulate on his excellent report - to set up a resettlement unit to enable this coordination to be carried out and to facilitate resettlement procedures.
in writing. − resettlement of refugees has been necessary whenever the host third countries do not have the conditions for them to settle there safely and with a livelihood. the various bodies involved in this field feel that there is a need to combat this problem at european level and the joint resettlement programme proposed by the commission may be the appropriate means of doing so. whatever model is ultimately chosen, there is an urgent need for greater cooperation between member states and with first-aid recipient countries in order to provide a lasting, sustainable and coordinated response to this grave humanitarian problem.
in writing. - currently only 10 eu member states, including portugal, accept the resettlement of refugees. this reality must be changed and solutions and incentives must be found so that more ms can take up refugee resettlement. the creation of this programme represents an important step in that direction. it will also contribute to improving the level of eu participation in resettlement on a global scale, thus having a positive impact on the eu's ambition to play a leading role in global humanitarian affairs and on the international scene.
in writing. − quality education and training are essential for the personal development of individuals, equality and the fight against social exclusion and poverty, active citizenship and social cohesion. improving the quality of education and training for all learners is essential to achieving better outcomes and skills. only in this way will it be possible to implement a renewed social agenda for opportunities, access and solidarity, contributing to the creation of more and better jobs. mobility between higher education institutions, the business world and vocational education and training should be promoted in a way that fosters skills acquisition, entrepreneurship, intercultural knowledge, critical thinking and creativity. i also call on the member states to modernise the higher education agenda and, in particular, to coordinate curricula with the needs of the labour market.
in writing. − education and vocational training policies have become increasingly important within the union since the adoption of the lisbon strategy. i therefore welcome this report in general and the communication from the committee on essential competences for a changing world in particular. i am concerned, however, about the gap between the levels of skills acquired in school and the demands of the european labour market. a clear focus on vocational training and lifelong learning, as well as the cross-cutting development of key competences such as digital, civic, sporting, artistic, learning capacity, entrepreneurship and cultural sensitivity will contribute greatly to the success of the new skills for new jobs initiative. i therefore believe that it is essential for the next generations to bridge the current skills gap/labour market needs that pre-school education is of high quality as a tool for the early acquisition of essential skills; primary and secondary education focused on the development of more specific skills, such as the mastery of foreign languages and adapted to the needs of the communities in which the schools are located, and higher education coordinated with the needs of the labour market, enterprises and society in general.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on key competences for a changing world: implementation of the work programme education and training for 2010. despite some improvements, we are still far from achieving the objectives set by the lisbon strategy in education and training. this report analyses and assesses what has gone wrong and presents solutions to the challenges still to be overcome, including the best link between education systems, vocational training and lifelong learning systems.
in writing. − having held government responsibilities in the field of education in my country, it is with deep regret that i see it continually ranked poorly in virtually all indicators relating to these subjects. i fear that these unfavourable results are due, to a large extent, to an ideology of learning which seems to override the commission communication and the parliament resolution in which the words 'merit', 'rigor', 'effort', 'concentration' and 'discipline' are not to be found even once and in which 'transmission of knowledge' and 'memorization' are seen as less important realities than 'the dimension of skills and attitudes based on core competences'. it would be useful for governments to stop worrying about statistics and to tackle the root of the problem once and for all, putting aside the talkative and irresponsible methods of all the actors in the educational process and the statistical camouflage and adopting methods focused above all on scientific content and cognitive processes, on effective learning and teaching and less on the enunciation of commonplaces as empty as well-intentioned. in view of the overall positive content of the resolution, i shall vote in favour of it, but i must make it clear that i fundamentally disagree with this interpretation of what an educational system should be.
in writing. - education and training issues are obviously of the greatest importance in view of the constant scientific and technological development and the increasing incorporation of scientific and technical knowledge into production processes. it is in this context that the report under discussion considers it 'essential to implement policies aimed at improving the quality of education and training', a concern which we naturally share. but in doing so it does not emphasize, nor even mention, as was required, the importance of public schooling in pursuing this objective, nor the consequences of the disinvestment in public schooling, such as the exclusion of many young people from access to education and training. instead, it opts to refer to a misguided and ambiguous strengthening of 'public-private cooperation'. as regards higher education, the bologna process does not provide any solution to the necessary improvement of training, but on the contrary, in countries such as portugal, it has represented a weakening of training, particularly in the public system. we cannot fail to record and denounce the defence of flexibility, which pushes young people into precarious, uncertain, intermittent and poorly paid work. we also have differences in the conception of volunteering as a form of job substitution, exacerbating the exploitation of young people who want to enter the world of work.
in writing. − following the lisbon strategy in 2000, a number of initiatives have been put in place to achieve the strategic objective set by the european council of 'making europe the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010'. the focus on education and training is fundamental and should be on improving the quality and effectiveness of education systems in europe, focusing on the training of teachers and trainers, facilitating access to education and training systems for all, making the learning process more attractive, and opening up education and training systems to the outside world, promoting even greater linkage with the world of work. the standardisation of objectives in a european competence framework was an important step towards the proposed 2010 targets, which were not, however, fully achieved. in a review and evaluation of the work done so far, this document is all the more important if it is seen in the context of preparing recovery strategies for the achievement of the initially proposed objectives for the education sector, taking into account the new proposal for a strategic framework for european cooperation in this sector: education and training 2020.
in writing. - good corporate governance and the ethics of company management are of paramount importance, particularly in the current context where many shareholders have suffered losses on their investments as a result of breaches of some of these principles. good, responsible and ethical managers are at the heart of a balanced decision-making process that leads to companies becoming competitive. when we talk about regulating certain ethical practices we cannot forget the principle of private autonomy and that there should be a limit to how far certain practices should be regulated. i also think it is essential that shareholders should be more involved and more accountable so that good managers and good companies are rewarded by the market and less ethical managers are punished so that their practices do not harm shareholders' rights or have a negative impact on the market as a whole.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has reinforced the need to look at the ethical issues related to business management in a more responsible way. aspects relating to the remuneration structure and the governance of the remuneration of directors and managers of listed companies must be governed by ethical and deontological principles, which do not allow situations such as those experienced in the recent past, with the distribution of management bonuses in companies that soon afterwards went bankrupt or revealed tremendous difficulties. the eu must have a long-term productive, social and environmental model which respects the interests of all, companies, shareholders and workers. hence my vote.
in writing. - the economic crisis has had a major impact on young people's lives. i therefore welcome a renewed strategy for youth which puts the well-being of future generations on the political agenda. as the knowledge triangle is a key element for growth and job creation, i stress the importance of creating opportunities for young people in education and employment through a greater interaction between education, research and innovation. meps play a crucial role in promoting european youth policies in the member states. i would like to draw attention to the problem of school drop-outs and the need to ensure that a higher proportion of young people complete compulsory schooling. the european parliament also has a key role in formulating, implementing, monitoring and evaluating youth strategies. it is essential that community programmes and funds reflect europe's ambitions for youth and that these eu policies, programmes and actions are coordinated with a view to an eu youth strategy.
in writing. - i support the report by mr georgios papanikolaou on 'an eu strategy for youth - investing and mobilising'. i support the call on the member states to implement fully the provisions of the lisbon treaty on youth policy, in particular the objective of encouraging the participation of young people in democratic life, giving special attention to younger athletes and the effective implementation of the charter of fundamental rights. i would stress the importance of the comenius, erasmus and leonardo da vinci programmes in the formulation of european policies in the field of education and training. i urge the commission to give priority to instruments that improve the skills of young people and increase job opportunities, and especially the development of erasmus-1 for employment. i agree with the continuation of the fight against drugs, alcohol, tobacco and other forms of addiction (including gambling). i would stress the role of information for young people in the field of sexuality education and health protection. i would stress the importance of volunteering and, as the jsd has always advocated, the assignment of responsibilities to young people as protagonists in the design and implementation of youth policies at european, national, regional and local level.
in writing. − investing in youth policies is essential for the future of european societies, particularly at a time when the number of young people in the global population continues to decline. i was pleased to receive the 'european youth report' which for the first time collects data on the situation of young people in europe as well as the three priorities set by the commission for youth. creating more opportunities for young people in education and employment, increasing access to and encouraging young people's participation in society, and promoting social inclusion and solidarity among young people are key drivers of an effective european youth policy that can contribute to the development of a european mindset. however, the existence of different definitions of 'youth' in the different member states, together with the fact that youth policy is covered by the principle of subsidiarity, highlights the weaknesses in the effective implementation of youth policy instruments. to produce concrete results, a renewed european cooperation for youth requires, alongside the urgent need to strengthen the open method of coordination, a strong will and a great political commitment on the part of the governments of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'an eu strategy for youth: investing and mobilising'. the economic crisis is jeopardising, at least for the time being, the professional future of millions of young people across the european union, mainly because of the increased difficulties in entering the labour market. to avoid the risk of wasting young people's talents, it is urgent to ensure that training measures ensure a better match between skills and labour market requirements, thus promoting the autonomy and economic independence of young people.
in writing. - at a time when europe is experiencing the biggest and most serious economic and financial crisis in recent decades, it is essential that the european union youth strategy now under discussion focuses on the problems brought about by the crisis and which particularly affect young people. among these, we highlight the high rate of unemployment among young people, the difficulty of entering the labour market, low wages, the inadequacy of the formal skills acquired in school and university to the requirements of working life, and the difficulty of reconciling the always demanding start of working life with family life. these are concerns that should be present in any european youth strategy. the aim should therefore be to find policies and strategies that enable young europeans to adapt better and more quickly to the challenges of the 21st century, especially in a context of crisis. i would particularly stress the importance of measures which give due weight to education, aimed at the acquisition of new skills and the stimulation of creativity and entrepreneurship. finally, i believe that in order to achieve the objectives proposed, it is necessary to strengthen coordination between the various actors involved in the implementation of the youth strategy.
in writing. − the focus on youth is on a good education system, which gives top priority to the problems of early school leaving and illiteracy, and which supports equal access for all young people to high quality education and training at all levels. the promotion of lifelong learning opportunities is also advocated. given the high unemployment rates among europe's young people and the fact that young people with low skills are more easily affected by unemployment, it is essential to ensure that young people receive the best possible training, which will enable them to gain early access to and long-term permanence in the labour market. the first job is very important. we therefore proposed an 'erasmus first employment' which was approved. the european commission is expected to follow up on this proposal. the eu should better inform, develop and implement the instruments it already has at its disposal. the young people must be called upon to take a greater part, in particular, in building the recycling society, in the fight against climate change which has already been achieved with the cooperation and generosity of young people.
in writing. - we believe that this report takes a correct approach to the problems of young people, as something that is cross-cutting across various sectors of society. in doing so, it identifies specific problems in a number of areas - education and training; employment; health; welfare and the environment; participation; culture and others - such as school drop-out, unemployment, job insecurity and precariousness, unpaid internships, brain drain, environmental degradation, drug addiction, social exclusion and others. the rapporteur has put forward some proposals to solve these problems which we think are fair and deserve our agreement, but there are others which we think are clearly insufficient, others which are still ambiguous and some which are even contradictory. we cannot accept, for example, that an eu2020 strategy 'more geared to young people' could mean adopting flexibility and job insecurity, or intermittent work - concepts present in the strategy - as a 'strategic' solution for young people, with the argument of competitiveness and a possible way out of the crisis. as in other areas, harmonization is required here too, in the interests of social progress and not by lowering the living and working conditions of young people. some countries, such as portugal, have constitutionally enshrined a wide range of youth rights, which should be enforced and not restricted.
in writing. − the eu youth strategy is becoming increasingly important and, given that young people now make up 20% of the total population, it should be seen as a political priority. the objectives are clear and defined and relate to such important areas as creating more employment opportunities or encouraging more active participation by young people in society. in the current context of financial and economic crisis, combined with the problem of ageing, young people are also one of the most vulnerable groups. i therefore support an increasing focus on youth policies at european union level. hence my vote.
in writing. - in view of the need to repeal directive 86/613/eec on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women engaged in an activity in a selfemployed capacity, this proposed amendment represents a significant step forward, as does the situation of the spouses of selfemployed persons. as regards social protection, it is proposed that where a social protection system for selfemployed persons exists in a member state, that member state should take the necessary measures to enable spouses to benefit from social protection in accordance with national law. although social protection for spouses is not compulsory, this proposal is an important step, as in many member states spouses still do not enjoy any form of social protection, either compulsory or voluntary. finally, this proposal provides for the protection of maternity. there is no provision for selfemployed women or the assistant spouses of selfemployed men to have the same period of maternity leave as that provided for employed women. however, they may be entitled to appropriate compensation to enable them to interrupt their activities for at least 14 weeks and/or to request temporary replacement service. for these reasons i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this directive which establishes a framework for the application in the member states of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a selfemployed capacity or contributing to the pursuit of such an activity. the low participation of women in self-employment constitutes an inequality, as family responsibilities appear to have a negative impact on women's entrepreneurship compared to men's. as regards the spouses who work together, the lack of social security coverage and the non-recognition of their contribution to the activity of family businesses gives some companies unfair competitive advantages, so this initiative would ensure a level playing field in europe. measures to close the gender gap in entrepreneurship and to improve work-life balance are essential. i call on the member states to ensure in practice full equality between men and women in working life, with a view to promoting entrepreneurship initiatives among women.
in writing. - the december 1986 directive has proved ineffective and has had very unsatisfactory practical results, according to its implementation reports. for this reason, it is urgent to strengthen maternity protection for selfemployed women and to ensure equal treatment for men and women in selfemployment, including their assisting spouses. in europe, 16% of the working population is selfemployed, of which only one third are women. this number is undoubtedly due to the numerous obstacles faced by women entrepreneurs, particularly in the area of reconciling their family and professional lives. however, if the 1986 directive did not achieve its objectives, the present proposal is also not very ambitious. i regret that in order to achieve a political compromise at council level, the potential of this directive has been reduced. it can, however, be seen as a first step towards improving the current situation with regard to social protection for selfemployed women and assisting spouses, with the creation of minimum rules and the recognition for the first time at union level of a right to maternity benefit allowing a break from work for a minimum of 14 weeks.
in writing. - as a firm supporter of the principle of equality, i could not call into question initiatives aimed at protecting women's rights at work, such as the present report by my dear colleague. as i have already said, "men and women must be treated equally, with equal rights but with special needs, which is particularly evident in the case of women in areas such as maternity protection and work-life balance". i am therefore pleased to see that the protection of the maternity rights of selfemployed women is one of the concerns raised here. however, as a staunch supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that many of the matters under consideration should remain within the sphere of the autonomy of the states.
in writing. - the efforts made by the european parliament to strengthen the mechanisms of social justice and gender equality in the european union are to be commended. in addition to being an unquestionable principle in the civilized world, and particularly in a europe which considers itself culturally and socially advanced, ensuring equal treatment for men and women in selfemployment, particularly in access to social protection mechanisms - particularly in the field of maternity - is even more urgent and flagrant in this long period of deep economic and social crisis. i would stress the concern for eliminating differences in treatment between sectors of activity, in view of the recognised changes in the organisation and in the equipment and mechanisms of work or production. there should be equal criteria for all workers in accessing public social protection schemes, in particular in regard to contributions and allowances. i would also point out that this recommendation will certainly strengthen the incentives for female entrepreneurship. the european economy still has much to gain and to develop with a stronger and more comprehensive participation of women.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to ensure equal treatment for men and women in self-employment. so, since the fundamental rights of equality and social protection are already safeguarded, and the proposed amendments to the original text are aimed at a general improvement in the protection of the spouses of selfemployed workers, in particular with regard to the maternity allowance granted to selfemployed women and to spouses or persons living in a de facto union, i see the adoption of this text as an important and very positive step towards approximation with the current european legislation for employed women. hence my vote.
in writing. - i welcome this proposal for a regulation which aims to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework with a view to encouraging innovation in the textile and clothing sector, allowing fibre users and consumers to benefit more quickly from innovative products. the issue of simplification is key to fostering innovation in european industry and to increasing the level of information provided to consumers. it is also important to find a less burdensome legislative alternative with less onerous procedures and costs for transposing directives. the industry will benefit from the reduction in the time between the submission of an application and the ability to place the product on the market, resulting in savings in administrative costs and the possibility to market earlier, increasing the benefits of the sale.
in writing. − on 30 january 2009, the commission adopted a proposal for a new regulation on textile names and related product labelling. the proposal brings together all existing legislation on textile product names and labelling into a single regulation. the rapporteur said that the proposed revision was 'essentially a technical exercise with no major political implications'. however, we know that the competition to which european textiles are subject, especially with products from china, requires that more profound measures be taken in the future in the field of labelling. that should be the task of the commission from now on. the challenges facing the european union today also require the internal market to be improved and strengthened. to this end, efforts must be made to reduce the barriers to their full implementation. the harmonization and simplification of the rules on textile names meet this objective, since they clarify the information provided to the consumer and thus contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the sector.
in writing. − the correct identification of the place and manner of manufacture and of the essential characteristics of the product's composition is a fundamental prerogative to ensure consumer confidence and the protection of their rights, while introducing an important factor to promote fair competition in the global textile market. in this context, the standardisation of the methodology for the labelling of textile products will benefit the competitiveness of the european textile and clothing industry, and in particular of the portuguese industry. i stress the need for harmonised rules on the indication of the origin of textile products imported from third countries and precise criteria for the use of the 'made in' mark of origin for products manufactured in the eu, as well as social labelling so that the consumer is informed of the respect of health and safety standards and human rights. i also think that eco-labelling, which relates to the environmental performance of textile products, is important. the introduction of these more transparent and clearer rules on the labelling where information on non-textile and animal components is included will also make it possible to strengthen the consumer's ability to differentiate products and their quality.
in writing. we have voted in favour of this report, taking account of its general line, in defence of designation of origin and with concern for the protection of the rights of consumers, workers and the production of the textile and clothing industry in our countries. but we have some differences of opinion on the details of labelling, particularly on the content of fibres which is too detailed, especially where small and mediumsized enterprises are concerned, given the costs that this may entail. so, although we voted in favour of it in general, there are some detailed proposals with which we disagree and we insist on the need to revise them or at least to provide for support measures, taking account of the problems of small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. - the designation of origin of products is very important for consumers to have an accurate idea of the origin of what they consume. it is not correct to designate a product as eu originating when it is only packaged in an eu country and the other production steps are carried out in non-eu countries. the new rules adopted will contribute to greater transparency in international trade and better information for consumers. hence my vote.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the legislative resolution granting macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, as it will enable it to cope with the consequences of the global financial crisis through the sustainability of the budgetary situation and external accounts. this response to ukraine's request is essential for economic stabilisation, in conjunction with the current imf programme, but it is necessary that ukraine take appropriate measures to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and any other irregularities related to this assistance, and that provision is made for controls to be carried out by the commission and audits by the court of auditors. in this context, i refer to the memorandum of understanding and the loan agreement to be concluded with the ukrainian authorities which provide for the adoption of specific measures to be implemented by ukraine in the field of preventing and combating fraud, corruption and any other irregularities affecting assistance.
in writing. - i was pleased to vote in favour of parliament's proposal for macrofinancial assistance to ukraine. ukraine, as a potential candidate country for accession to the european union, is a privileged partner and should be the target of specific policies aimed at solving its concrete problems. but the european union's macrofinancial assistance to ukraine will only contribute to the economic stabilisation of the country if the serene political-party landscape and the political forces which have been too consumed over the past few years by internal power and influence guerrilla warfare establish a broad consensus on a scrupulous implementation of the structural reforms necessary for the country's future. it is also essential that the ukrainian government act to put an end to the lack of independence of the judiciary, which is subject to too much influence not only from political power but also from economic agents. without a free and independent judiciary there is no rule of law, there are no guarantees of human rights, there is no foreign investment, there is no progress. the mechanisms which the loan agreement will define should take account of these factors in order to allow a strict control of their applicability by the community institutions.
in writing. - the recent news of violence between ukrainian parliamentarians has worried the whole of europe and clearly reflected the split in that society, the crossroads it is at today and russia's inescapable role in that region. i believe that the european union cannot fail to point the european way to ukraine and, in this sense, the macrofinancial assistance it is now providing should be another sign of rapprochement and solidarity at a time of particular social, economic and financial weakness. i hope that ukraine will unreservedly embark on a process of convergence with the european union, that the proposed association agreement will enter into force and strengthen bilateral relations and trade, and that this process may lead to ukraine's accession to our common space. i also hope that the need for such aid will diminish and that ukraine will regain political stability and achieve social balance and renew its business fabric and persist in the option of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − ukraine's economy has been severely affected by the international financial crisis, with a huge decline in its industrial production, a deterioration in the budgetary situation and an increase in external financing needs. the community financial support reflects the country's strategic importance as a potential candidate for eu membership. i therefore vote in favour of providing macrofinancial assistance to ukraine of up to eur 500 million in the form of a loan to support the process of economic stabilisation in the country and to reduce the balance of payments and budgetary needs identified in the current imf programme. i believe it is important to help ukraine to return to the minimum socioeconomic levels required and to enable its public accounts to stabilise, thus creating prospects for growth and political confidence. i also agree that control mechanisms should be ensured to increase clarity, transparency and accountability and that the european parliament should be regularly informed about the work of the economic and financial committee.
in writing. - the macrofinancial assistance to ukraine now proposed does not constitute genuine and disinterested aid. on the contrary, i did. conditioning this assistance on imf requirements and the 'key principles and objectives of economic reform set out in the eu-ukraine association agenda' means, inter alia: - the establishment of 'a comprehensive eu-ukraine free trade area'; - compliance with the 'eu common foreign and security policy (cfsp) objectives'; - 'intensification of coordination through military channels to address issues of common interest'; - ukraine's possible participation in the eu naval operation atalanta; - establishment in ukraine of 'a fully functioning market economy' and the eu-defined principles of macroeconomic stability; - exchange of 'best practices' between the eu and ukraine on reform of the social security system with the aim of 'improving the sustainability of ukraine's pension system'. it is clear from all that is explicitly assumed and from much that can be read between the lines, given the known meaning of much of the community vocabulary mentioned above, that our vote could not be otherwise than against. we are also expressing our solidarity with the ukrainian people.
in writing. the process of stabilising and relaunching the ukrainian economy is supported by the international monetary fund (imf). in view of the worsening economic situation and prospects, ukraine has requested union macro-financial assistance. the macrofinancial assistance programme is very important in helping the financial balance of european nations that have been through the recent world crisis and that have been hurt by the consequences of that crisis in their main trading partners. the financial imbalances are budgetary and balance of payments imbalances. this aid is important for ukraine to face the crisis in a more consistent way. the eu must therefore be a space of solidarity. hence my vote.
in writing. − the outermost regions face increased challenges due to their geography, which places them far from the centre of the union. i therefore welcome the adoption of specific measures in the agricultural field for these regions in the context of the current economic crisis. in particular, i would stress the specific nature of the regions of the azores and madeira and welcome the main measures taken in connection with the introduction, extension or adaptation of certain derogations in the sugar, milk and wine sectors. it is important to stress that it is essential to have an integrated strategy for the outermost regions, without forgetting that each of them has its own specificity, and it is important to find the best responses for each of the regions. i would stress the various instruments that exist in the eu, such as regional strategies and neighbourhood policy, and the importance of continuing to discuss the strategic guidelines for the outermost regions in order to raise awareness among decision-makers of the specificities and potential of these regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation laying down specific measures in the agricultural field for the outermost regions of the european union. the adoption of this report not only represents an opportunity for agricultural diversification but also restores more possibilities for the re-dispatch of products. in a period of economic crisis this is a decisive contribution to restructuring and maintaining in regions such as the azores not only many dozens of jobs but also maintaining the activity of the agro-industrial sugar industry.
in writing. the commission proposal provides for amendments to regulation (ec) no 247/2006 laying down specific measures for agriculture in favour of the outermost regions of the union. these amendments relate to the sugar, milk and wine sectors. i welcome the quality of the work of the rapporteurs who have spoken. the current multiannual financial framework and the next financial perspective must have the principle of solidarity as one of its basic principles. social and territorial cohesion must be ensured in this way. we all know the natural difficulties faced by the outermost regions of the european union, given their geographical situation and conditions, which have a negative impact on their economic activity and their productive fabric. the amendments go against this principle of solidarity and i therefore support them.
in writing. - the assumption underlying the report, and made explicit in the first recital of the compromise proposal, of accepting the end of milk quotas is unacceptable to us, justifying our vote against. if it comes to fruition (as the report adopted admits, taking it for granted), the end of the milk quotas will have extremely serious effects on the azorean milk sector and the entire local dairy industry. the consequences for the regional economy of the abolition of milk quotas - which we are fighting against and will continue to fight against - would not be mitigated by the measures now proposed for the sugar processing industry, with a view to extending the period of re-dispatching. this is a fair objective, but it is weakened at the outset when it is accepted - here too! - that this measure should be phased out within five years. as regards madeira, the process of converting vineyards is significantly delayed and may even be compromised if incentives are not reinforced - a need which is ignored in the report. the negative consequences for the region of the so-called 'geneva agreement' on banana trade are also being ignored. another aspect that would be worth considering is the possibility of supporting the development of an inter-island market for the marketing of local agricultural products.
in writing. − the economic and social development of the outermost regions of the european union is conditioned by their peripheral location, insularity, small surface area, adverse climate and geographical situation and economic dependence on a small number of products. these factors, taken together, severely restrict their development. as enshrined in article 349 of the treaty of lisbon, provision is made for the possibility of specific measures in favour of the outermost regions, which should be implemented through appropriate initiatives designed to meet their specific needs, particularly in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. the main amendments relate to the introduction, extension or adaptation of certain derogations in the sugar, milk and wine sectors. in view of all these conditions and the international crisis we are facing, we shall vote in favour of these measures. hence my vote.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development on the report by mr luís paulo alves, i am pleased with the way we have started to move towards a more rapid and effective adjustment of the maximum quantities for the export of products covered by the supply arrangements from the outermost regions. this dossier falls within the scope of article 349 of the treaty of lisbon, which provides for aid to the outermost regions in view of the permanent difficulties they face as a result of their geographical situation, topography and climate. the provisions of this regulation should meet the specific needs of these regions and the realities of the local market. this was the objective i had in mind when drafting my proposals, which the european commission has committed itself to revising in the overall review of this regulation to be carried out in 2010. i have also been concerned to safeguard the income of madeiran and azorean producers of wine of hybrid varieties prohibited by the common organization of the european wine market by enabling them to continue to grow it for family consumption and not be obliged to grub it up. as i expected, the compromise reached in the trilogue between parliament, the commission and the council was confirmed today by a large majority in the plenary.
in writing. - as i said earlier, the treaty of lisbon points to an increase in the volume of matters to be dealt with by the european parliament in co-decision. the appropriate technical and logistical means are needed to carry out the work quickly and effectively. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is based on the principle of equal treatment for all medicinal products.
in writing. - in line with the policies i have been advocating, i consider it important to adopt a zero-based budget policy at the beginning of each parliamentary term. parliament's budget will thus reflect real needs and increase transparency, budgetary rigor and efficiency. i am also in favour of the separation of fixed and variable costs, the latter being justified by a cost-benefit analysis. this cost-benefit analysis is important for better results and resource management. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, new powers have been conferred and with the entry of 18 new members, it is necessary to create the conditions for them to be able to exercise their mandate in a dignified and effective manner. i would stress that legislative excellence must be the parliament's top priority and that it must be given the resources it needs to function properly, especially at a time of great demands, when the european institutions have a key role to play for europeans and for society in general.
in writing. - with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament's powers have been extended, which naturally entails new measures to meet the increased needs. this estimate of the 2011 budget therefore represents an increase of 5,8% compared to the 2010 financial year in an attempt to ensure that parliament can fully use and develop its prerogatives. the budget for 2011 will be €1,710 547 354, of which 20.32% will be allocated to heading 5 (administration), which will allow the reconciliation of policy objectives with their financing. this budget proposal includes provisions on the representation of croatia, the reinforcement of the secretariat for members, the increase in posts, the increase in the annual number of visitors invited by members, the reduction of parliament's carbon footprint and the financing of the house of european history and the visitor centre. this report reflects a sensible budget, geared towards a european parliament sustainability policy, but which nevertheless has a rigorous approach to the effective use of available resources.
in writing. - i voted overall in favour of the effort to simplify the cap which should benefit farmers by allowing them to focus on producing safe, quality food, but also national and union authorities by reducing the bureaucratic burden associated with the implementation of the cap. the cap is of vital importance to the eu, both because it ensures safe food production and because of concerns for the preservation of the environment or rural areas, with a view to effective sustainable development. simplifying has to mean greater responsibility for all the agents involved. i therefore welcome the need to make the cap a simpler, more transparent and fairer instrument, and i would like to stress, as a first step, the proposal to establish a uniform system for the identification of animals with the possibility of self-certification, the reduction of inspection quotas to levels below those currently defined and the question of traceability of sheepmeat and goatmeat: i am referring specifically to the proposal to identify herds by herd. and the necessary reform of the cap will finally have to distinguish between support for individual farmers or their associative movement and the return of large agri-food companies to the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that simplification of the cap is essential for the competitiveness of european agriculture, for the preservation of jobs and for the sustainable development of european rural areas. the control rules need to be streamlined and made more accessible to farmers, with the help and advice of national bodies, to ensure that the quality of european agricultural products does not impose unnecessary burdens and additional difficulties on those involved in agricultural activity.
in writing. - simplification of legislation is a key objective in bringing europe closer to citizens. we need simple policies that are easily understood by those who do not know the community vocabulary and do not speak european. to that extent, a policy as fundamental and structural as the cap must be understood by its main target groups, in this case european farmers. i therefore agree with the rapporteur when he rightly says that 'the new cap must enable farmers to concentrate on the central objective of providing safe, quality food of known origin, while helping them to provide non-marketable public goods'. i hope that the new cap can be simpler, more transparent and fairer, more geared to farmers' needs and to the market, with quicker and less bureaucratic procedures (although safe and effective). legal certainty does not require complexity or lengthy procedures. it requires simplicity and efficiency. that is exactly what we want for the new cap.
in writing. the common agricultural policy must ensure an adequate supply of safe food and must also respond to challenges such as the preservation of rural areas, mountain regions, disadvantaged regions and the multifunctionality of european agriculture. the harmonization of legislation must be accompanied by the elimination of redundancy. the 25% reduction in administrative burdens is expected to be achieved by 2012. the common agricultural policy must be simplified, which will make our agricultural economy more competitive. in this way, jobs are preserved and created and a contribution is made to the sustainable development of our rural areas. the simplification of the cap should benefit farmers first and foremost, not just the national authorities and the paying agencies of the member states. farmers should have access to functional systems that allow them to submit applications for direct payments at their place of residence easily and without red tape. this simplification should be accompanied by a simplification of its implementation, and member states should minimise the bureaucratic formalities required of beneficiaries, in particular in the field of rural development. more flexibility is required. the commission is therefore in favour of allowing more flexible payment arrangements before all checks are finally completed.
in writing. - the need to change the penalties, particularly as regards non-compliance not attributable to the producer; the simplification of the application procedures; the very positive changes in the identification of animals, particularly sheep and goats. however, the approach proposed by the rapporteur is significantly market-oriented, competitiveness-oriented, and 'reducing excessive protectionism', deepening a sense of liberalization, with the well-known disastrous consequences. the document also continues to support the current aid distribution model. it states that 'the distribution of the single payment should be equitable', but does not propose concrete measures to achieve this objective. it is convinced that the current definition of agricultural activity for the purposes of the single payment should be revised, but it does not propose any changes to the current model of paying for not producing. in short, the report lacks proposals and measures to change the current cap model, particularly (but not only) as regards the distribution of aid.
in writing. − simplifying the cap is essential to meet the objective of reducing the administrative burden in the agricultural sector by 25% by 2010. bureaucracy is a serious obstacle for farmers, who, by wasting too much time on paperwork, neglect their daily activities in their fields. the new amendments will also reduce the administrative burden on farmers by hundreds of millions of euros, with tangible benefits, especially in view of the difficult economic situation in which we live. simplification of rules and control mechanisms is essential for farmers, who must ensure that 500 million citizens are provided with food at a reasonable price. hence my vote.
in writing. - the report on the simplification of the cap reflects on a subject which has been of great concern to farmers, the main target of the cap, but also to european citizens in general who find the cap difficult to understand because of the complexity of its mechanisms. the need for simplification measures is therefore recognised by all as urgent and it is crucial that they have a direct impact on farmers as a whole and not just on the administrations of each member state, as has often been the case. the elimination of market management mechanisms cannot be considered as one of the ways of simplification. one of the problems to be corrected by simplification should be the need to eliminate discrimination at the level of the single payment scheme in the various member states, problems arising from the inefficiency of national administrations, such as checks, deadlines, payments, etc., preventing us from having a multi-speed cap, which promotes inequalities between farmers in the various member states.
in writing. − simplifying the common agricultural policy (cap) legislation is crucial to making europe's agricultural economy more competitive, preserving and boosting jobs and contributing to the development of rural areas. it seems to me essential that whenever the commission proposes new regulations in this field, it should simultaneously seek to remove unnecessary administrative barriers. the simpler the legislation, the more comprehensible it will be for all concerned, whether farmers, national and regional authorities or bodies monitoring the application of funds. this will reduce the support and time required by these agents in preparing applications, the number of errors and the costs associated with monitoring funding. simplification is also needed in the control of the use of funds and random audits seem to me the most efficient way of doing this. the application of penalties must be transparent and proportionate, taking into account the size of the holdings and the local realities, particularly in the outermost regions, such as madeira. it is because this report goes against the above points that i have voted in favour of it today in the house. it is now up to us to ensure that, in the overall reform of the cap, there is better coordination between agricultural policy and cohesion policy.
in writing. - i welcome this resolution which aims to improve the simplification rules in the field of contract award, while contributing to the creation of greater legal certainty. european initiatives in the field of public procurement require coordination at european level to avoid inconsistencies and legal problems. it is also important to clarify the legal conditions under which public procurement legislation applies to institutionalised public-private partnerships. i call on the commission to simplify procedures so that both local authorities and businesses can reduce costs and time spent on red tape. on the other hand, simplified procedures will facilitate access for smes and allow them to participate on more balanced and fairer terms. public administrations should be encouraged to use ecological, social and other criteria in the award of public contracts. i urge the commission to explore the possibility of using public procurement compatible with environmental protection as a tool to promote sustainable development.
in writing. − in 2004, the commission carried out a review of the directives on public procurement procedures, aiming at simplifying procedures towards more transparent, efficient, flexible and less bureaucratic public procurement. the rapporteur says that 'the main task of public procurement services is to purchase goods and services in economically and cost-effective ways in order to fulfil the public service mission. however, public authorities are not economic operators like others and have a special responsibility in that they administer public money.' once again i am forced to point out that a complex law is not the law that best serves the interests of the parties. in the case of public procurement, the opposite is true. the more complex, opaque and time-consuming the procedures, the more the law is evaded and, ultimately, the more corruption is encouraged. it is therefore imperative that in the process of revising the current directives on public procurement, a search be made for simpler and more effective rules to regulate a sector which represents some 16% of the gross domestic product of the european union.
in writing. the annual turnover of public procurement in the european union amounts to over 16% of gross domestic product, i.e. over eur 1 500 billion. at a time of economic crisis, public procurement directives should neither make procurement procedures more difficult nor delay them. contracting entities, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, require legal certainty and certainty and fast procedures. i believe that the commission and the member states, in cooperation with regional and local authorities, should review the various sets of rules applicable to public procurement in order to unify them and to simplify the whole legal framework for public procurement in order to reduce the risk of errors and to increase efficiency in the use of the structural funds. it is noted that a large part of the irregularities in the implementation of european projects co-financed by the structural funds and the cohesion fund result from the improper transposition of eu rules. i believe that the commission should consider the possibility of using accelerated variants of procedures in the framework of the structural funds even after 2010, so that these resources are not wasted by the member states.
in writing. - the award of public contracts is a very delicate matter which deserves to be treated very seriously, as public funds are involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the award of public contracts must therefore be transparent and fair to all interested parties, with the main criterion being the best price-performance ratio, so that the best overall bid is considered, not just the one with the lowest price. hence my vote.
in writing. - in the face of the economic and humanitarian crisis the world is facing today, it is more urgent than ever that community development aid policies should be pursued in a coherent and united manner and in full coordination with the other policies of the union in the fields of trade, the environment, etc. it is now clear that, despite the eu's commitment to development policies and the fact that it is the world's largest donor of development aid, there is not always effective coordination between its policies, undermining in some cases the achievement of the millennium development goals. we intend, well, to change this status quo. we must look at oda in a long-term perspective, with synergies between all member states and policy coherence. this coherence must be achieved in order to contribute to the satisfaction of the development needs of those in need. i support this ep report in general and believe it is crucial that eu actors make every effort to reduce barriers to development, achieve the millennium development goals, fight poverty and ensure the practical implementation of human, social, economic and environmental rights in developing countries.
in writing. − the european union is often confronted with the paradoxes it has created and the inconsistencies which its policies create for its member states and their citizens, and also for third countries and peoples. as the world's leading donor, the european union and its member states must ensure that their development aid policy is not only efficient but also coherent and consistent, which has not always been the case. all efforts to promote this coherence and to take account of the multiple needs of the people for whom aid is intended are welcome. trade policy cannot be immune to this objective.
in writing. - the subject of this report is of great relevance, as we know that eu policies and action in many areas are often inconsistent with the stated objectives of 'development aid'. the report contains several important and positive aspects, such as: drawing attention to the persistence of the world hunger crisis; pointing out the inconsistency and ineffectiveness of fisheries agreements in relation to the stated objectives of cooperation and development; denouncing the effects of community subsidies on exports; criticising the liberalisation of services, the introduction of competition rules, tax havens, the outflow of capital from developing countries to the eu motivated by inconsistent policies and reduced aid to agriculture, the creation of a voluntary patent community for aids/hiv-related medicines. unfortunately, the rapporteur herself also ends up being inconsistent, in particular in advocating a greater development of instruments such as free trade agreements (ftas) and the so-called economic partnership agreements (epas), ignoring that these threaten the interests of developing countries in various fields, as has been evident from the resistance of many of them to sign these agreements, only overcome, in some cases, with unacceptable pressure and blackmail from the eu.
in writing. - this report is of the utmost importance in the current world economic climate, as it seeks to provide greater political coherence for the union to achieve the goals it has set itself, such as the millennium development goals. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid (the latest figures are €49 billion) and its intervention is focused on both the country and its citizens, so it is a comprehensive community policy with trade, environmental and social concerns. the need to stimulate access to european markets for products from these countries is stressed, and the development of community instruments to reduce customs duties is suggested. however, i would like to express my concern about some of the suggestions, since it is necessary to mention that they may have consequences for european producers, particularly those from geographical locations which deserve special attention. development aid and the eradication of poverty are a priority and deserve my full support, but i do not think that commitments should be made which could be achieved at the expense of the interests of our fellow citizens, who cannot be forgotten or subordinated and to whom we have special obligations.
in writing. − road traffic offences are a serious problem which raises important cross-border issues. it is therefore important that the commission is aware of the realities of the various member states and of the offences covered by the different national laws and the respective sanctions and fines. the rapporteur stresses that the eu should be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. if i agree with the importance of an effective and balanced penal system and with the cooperation of the states in reducing the differences in the treatment of road traffic offences, i find it even more difficult to understand that the national legislator could lose powers in criminal and contraventional matters in favour of community harmonisation of the nature of penalties and the amount of fines.
in writing. − the report by the european commission summarises the different types of sanctions in the member states and shows the differences between the systems adopted by each member state in this area, concluding that the situation is not satisfactory. it therefore called on the member states to apply social standards in road transport in a harmonised manner. the european parliament's rapporteur proposes to increase the efforts to harmonize this matter, particularly in the area of 'the interpretation of the application of social legislation' and of sanctions, by 'categorizing' them, thus aiming to 'achieve the internal transport market and increase legal certainty'. road safety is certainly an important subject, and along with it the improvement of working conditions in the road transport sector, in particular driving and rest times. we reaffirm that these objectives will not necessarily be achieved through 'generic' harmonisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the road safety prevention and improvement of working conditions in the transport sector must be stepped up, thus ensuring greater road safety in each member state.
in writing. − road transport safety has always been a concern of the eu, the adoption of this resolution is another step towards ending serious breaches of social rules in this area. there is a need for greater collaboration between member states to create a network of easy communication for all professionals in the sector whenever they are employed in a member state other than their own. a financial effort is also needed to provide the european road network with adequate infrastructure, including a sufficient number of services and safe parking places, to enable drivers to effectively comply with the required driving and rest periods. hence my vote.
in writing. - this report by my colleague on the transport committee is an excellent initiative to solve some of the existing problems in the area of penalties for serious infringements in road transport. the rules applicable to serious infringements of social legislation vary considerably in each member state as regards the amount of fines and the nature and classification of penalties, and therefore further harmonisation is necessary. i welcome the solutions proposed in the document to deal with these differences, in particular by the necessary harmonised categorisation of serious infringements and the implementation of a control system, coordinated at european level by an appropriate body with the task of improving cooperation in the implementation of social rules and ensuring the training of the inspection bodies responsible for applying these rules. i also stress the importance of developing other initiatives to provide adequate information on social rules and to create appropriate infrastructure and parking facilities to ensure compliance with the rules. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the document presented to the house today.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, madam minister, commissioner, the shortage of organs for transplantation is a bigger problem. it has been mentioned here several times and it is a bigger problem that poses us with issues both of public health and associated issues such as the strengthening of the parallel market and the trafficking of organs, which does not enhance our health systems or our citizens in any way. so we have to combat this crime, and combating it through legislation and proposals such as those we are discussing here is one way, it seems to me, more than important and more than relevant and that is why i want to focus on the dimensions and the most important issues raised by these two proposals. because the system we have so far, without these two proposals, is a system of enormous inequalities. inequalities between member states, inequalities between existing systems, inequalities in access to the institutions, inequalities between citizens, which, it seems to me, we cannot tolerate. so it's important to emphasize that these inequalities are diminishing. and these proposals are designed to do just that. i think that a european system which does, however, retain some of the specificities of some of the countries so that they are not obliged to have more restrictive systems is the answer to this problem and the work that has been done by the rapporteurs, mr mikolášik and mr perello rodriguez, is extremely important and contributes to this problem we are facing. if we are talking about proposals which are based on and supported by issues such as donation, voluntary work, gratuitousness, confidentiality, data protection, traceability, liability - and here i think that the parliament's side is important, which goes as far as the recovery of the patient and not just the donation - and cooperation between member states, i think we are on the right track. i should just mention, however, and in relation to donations among the living, i am glad to see the inclusion and this extension made with rights. of course, we must guarantee all rights and all conditions, but it is very important that we go beyond the restricted circle of the conventional family, because otherwise we would have other forms of inequality. so promoting donation as the main source of transplants and protecting data and patient safety seem to me to be more than enough reasons for us all to come together tomorrow and vote in favour of these two proposals of the utmost importance to the european union.
madam president, minister and commissioner, the ability to replace deteriorating human organs with someone else's organs, preventing their rejection, is one of the great successes of contemporary medicine. european benchmarking reveals differences, reveals that medium-sized countries like portugal do very well in such comparisons and larger countries like spain are now recognised as leaders in organisation and good practice. some principles and practices to safeguard. firstly, the strengthening of scientific knowledge and information leading more and more donors to live donation and to the widespread use of post-mortem donation; secondly, the prohibition of the marketing of donation not only within the member states but also outside them, preventing transplant tourism and combating organ trafficking; thirdly, the proactive promotion of donation in hospitals as a way of overcoming shortages. finally, madam president, we must ensure equal access to transplants for all those who need them and who qualify for them, in accordance with harmonized clinical criteria, in accordance with the principle of universal access to health care, which is the model of the social europe we are proud of. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their work.
the campala conference has important items on the agenda such as the crime of aggression. but bringing the accused omar el bashir to trial is currently the most decisive step in consolidating the icc's universal jurisdiction. it was thanks to pressure from the european union that the security council referred the crimes in darfur to the icc. the arrest warrants issued by the tribunal include the acting head of state in sudan for crimes against humanity and war crimes. the european union should act in accordance with the assessment of its observers of the elections in sudan, who concluded that they did not meet international standards. even if omar el bashir had been elected in a fair way, the european union should always demand that he be brought to justice. the european union cannot continue to send contradictory signals. it is imperative that president omar el bashir be handed over to the icc. this will be a powerful signal to discourage other dictators from violencing their people. failure in this case will have the opposite effect.
i would like to stress that it is with great satisfaction that the european people's party and the portuguese members of the european people's party see this process of accession, of accession, of the european union to the european convention on human rights being initiated. finally, we, a country like portugal, which has always been at the forefront of human rights with the abolition of slavery in portugal as early as 1761, with the pioneering abolition of the death penalty, can only be clearly interested in and supportive of this accession process. i would like to point out, however, that we consider it very important that the european parliament should follow the negotiations on the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights closely. we consider this aspect from the technical, legal and political point of view to be fundamental because parliament is also a house of human rights and a house where human rights are of great importance and i would just like to note that we consider it very important for us, members of the european parliament, who are in contact with many states outside the european union, it is very important, it is a very good signal that we give to the members of the council of europe (the entry of the european union into the members of the council of europe) who are not members of the european union. for these members of the council of europe, it is a sign of strengthening, of the european union's commitment to their situation and to the level of democracy and respect for fundamental rights.
madam president, commissioner, social housing is an economic service of general interest with an important role in the market, creating positive externalities for the benefit of society as a whole. in accordance with protocol 26 annexed to the treaty of lisbon, it is the responsibility of the national, regional and local authorities to implement and organise such services. it is therefore hard to understand why the target audience is restricted to households with incomes of less than eur 33 000. this is a measure of poverty which is made in absolute and purely financial terms, which does not take into account the diversity of the 27 member states, and is simply a matter of solvency. social housing responds to cultural and social issues, to the proximity of the workplace, to the important redefinition of the role of women in the market and to the mobility of workers in the european area. the european union's struggle to emerge from the current crisis is characterised by economic growth, which is accompanied by an increase in immigration and the need to integrate ethnic, economic and cultural minorities. even with the risks of ghettoization that are associated with it and that we must combat with a fair balance. is the commission not entering the field of competence of the member states?
madam president, we all know that the right to housing is a fundamental right. it is therefore an obligation of the european union states to provide social housing to all those who need it. at a time of deep social crisis, with a growing number of people and families with high levels of debt and difficulties in meeting their obligations to purchase housing or pay high rents, there is a growing need to provide all possible support to people and families who cannot afford to have a decent housing with adequate equipment and services. it is therefore essential that member states are able to use community and state funds to build social housing and guarantee the fundamental rights to which all citizens are entitled, ending social inequalities and fostering social inclusion. it is urgent that the european commission should also act in this area, without calling into question the principle of subsidiarity, but supporting the universality of public social services.
madam president, the situation created by the eruption of the volcano in iceland has demonstrated the significant impacts that certain types of natural phenomena, fortunately rare but with a consistent periodic occurrence, can have on the economy and society. in doing so, it once again underlined the importance of a preventive approach to these phenomena. in the present case, this does not mean preventing such effects from occurring, since this is clearly not possible, but rather seeking to adopt, in good time, all measures to mitigate such effects. but it is not legitimate, under the pretext of a supposedly better coordination of the crisis caused by these phenomena, to try to give new impetus to initiatives which have other objectives with a different scope. i am talking about the single european sky initiative and the objective of opening up the air traffic management in europe to liberalisation and subsequent privatisation. in this respect, if anything is to confirm the current volcanic ash crisis, it is the importance of keeping airspace management in the public domain in the public interest, first and foremost as a basic guarantee of public safety.
mr president, commissioner, when economic and monetary union turned ten, the commission considered the euro to be the union's most successful project. today, it would be difficult to say this without any limitations, because the crisis has shown that economic and monetary union is an unfinished project. the minimum rescue measures were taken in an emergency situation, but let us not be mistaken: the pressure conditions, the direct interests of the main member countries, the painful nature of the decisions, their slowness, have weakened the image of the euro and the european union in the eyes of the citizens and the world. you have to face the facts. the european union and the euro are a process of integration, not merely cooperation between countries. they are an unfinished process which is either strengthening or running the very real risk of disappearing. there are three issues that need to be addressed: first, it is important to consolidate the instruments that have been launched in this emergency climate; a european monetary fund should be set up; eurobonds need to be pushed forward; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european banking sector. second dimension: it is important to realize that there is no strong currency if the economy is weak; the 1% growth forecast for the european union is unsustainable both in terms of its demographic composition and in terms of combating unemployment. strategy 2020 is nothing more than a bunch of good ideas if it has no means of implementation. third dimension, commissioner olli rehn: fiscal consolidation is important, but it cannot coexist with growing divergences between the member states of the union; convergence policy must be urgently reviewed.
mr president, several of my colleagues here from the epp have already given a very complete picture of the situation. i think it is now time to demand and to make a reference to the role of the national states. in fact, national governments also have a role to play here in order to impose the requirements and conditions in their own countries so that the single currency can be strengthened and this project of monetary and economic integration can be carried forward. and here i would like to say that our party, the party linked to the epp which is the psd in portugal, is supporting the government in the austerity measures, because we consider that the mistakes which the socialist government has made in portugal over these 15 years - and which are unfortunately in the public eye today - that these mistakes need to be corrected and will have the support of the psd to be corrected. but if we are supporting the austerity measures, we are also criticising the portuguese government - and it is a good example for other similar cases - because it is not reducing spending, and what is fundamental is not just raising taxes to reduce the deficit, but reducing spending, it is demanding that the government has the courage to take measures that reduce spending, that alleviate the deficit, that alleviate the public debt. this applies to portugal and to other states which are today in a difficult situation, and we, as members of the european parliament, have a responsibility to advocate in our own countries too the measures needed to make the euro stronger and to make this area of integration and this dream, which is a dream of the epp and a dream of all of us, come true. we therefore criticise those governments which do not have the courage to take the necessary measures in their own countries.
in writing. just over a decade after the creation of the euro, the warnings and warnings we gave back then are being confirmed. the integration of economies with very different degrees of development, with criteria of nominal convergence, single monetary and exchange rate policies, all tailored to the interests of the great powers, has aggravated the crisis and the divergence within the eu, leading to the situation with which the peripheral economies are struggling. in the face of the crisis they have created, the decision-making centres of speculative finance capital - and their institutional extensions, in the eu institutions and governments - have just launched a new and unprecedented attack on the peoples and workers of europe. in the name not of solidarity - a concept increasingly alien to the masters of this eu - but of guaranteeing the stability of the euro demanded by the great powers, they have decided to usurp the budgetary powers of the states, in an intolerable affront to democracy and the sovereignty of the peoples. it is a fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty for a long time. the response to the so-called 'european economic government' and the emphasis on the anti-democratic nature of the integration process under way is given by the workers fighting for this europe outside. from that struggle, from your progressive drive, will germinate the necessary change.
in writing. it is regrettable that the council and the european commission come here to say that they are taking measures to solve the financial and productive problems within a framework of budgetary discipline and that they present the creation of the task force as the great asset for long-term measures. in a clear leap forward, and while acknowledging the delays in the hesitant measures they have taken, what the representatives of the spanish presidency of the eu and the commission have reaffirmed here is that they will continue on the same path of capitalist integration, deepening it. they prefer to ignore that the so-called 'temporary stabilisation mechanism' and its fund have been nothing but palliatives in the financial crisis, and they ignore that only a break with current policies and a change of course can bring about social progress. this requires prioritising quality production and public services, creating jobs with rights, decent wages, pensions and pensions, social inclusion and a fair distribution of income. but all this requires real economic and social cohesion, with a clear increase in the community budget, solidarity, more public policies and state control of the key sectors of the economy.
in writing. several less successful aspects can be pointed to the lisbon strategy. the objectives set were achieved only in part, owing to a number of factors, including a lack of political will and financial instruments. local and regional authorities have also pointed to their insufficient participation in both the definition and implementation of the strategy, and a poor correspondence between european and national objectives. all this has given the lisbon programme a lack of credibility, which is also due to a great deal of detail in its definition but a certain dilution in the responsibility for its implementation. at a time of economic uncertainty, weak public finances and high unemployment, the new strategy 2020 should be seen as an opportunity to reflect on the direction citizens want for the european union. however, it will be difficult to move in the same direction as long as the current imbalances between member states and their regions, especially the outermost regions, persist. it is perhaps also time to develop new forms of economic, financial and even budgetary coordination, particularly in the euro area, which i am convinced can make a decisive contribution to the achievement of the objectives now set, particularly with a view to territorial cohesion.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty, in addition to streamlining decision-making mechanisms, contributes to the fight against the democratic deficit by strengthening the role of national parliaments and the european parliament and by emphasising the exercise of european citizenship. the introduction of the legislative petition or the designation of the right of initiative of citizens is particularly significant. this new provision allows a group of at least one million citizens from a significant number of member states to request the commission to take a legislative initiative in areas of union competence. the lisbon treaty also stresses the importance of consultation and dialogue with other institutions, bodies, civil society, social partners, among others. i believe that europe must be the europe of the citizens and that this can only happen if we make it more democratic and more transparent. in this context, i agree that the contribution of the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions should be sought.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because it effectively contributes to making it easier for european consumers to choose products that consume or indirectly lead to less energy consumption. by adopting this recommendation, the european parliament is contributing to further progress towards the eu's target of improving its energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, with a balanced text that ensures a win-win situation for the market and consumers.
in writing. − the present initiative, like the one we voted on yesterday on energy efficiency in buildings, is part of a legislative package on energy efficiency that was presented by the commission in november 2008 and which has been the subject of extensive debate in parliament, the commission and the council, and has now finally reached agreement on the final text. in addition to the positive consequences for the environment, the european objective of reducing emissions and the creation of an energy-sustainable economy, this initiative also has the advantage of putting consumers at the centre of the decision-making process. with the right labelling and marking, consumers will know exactly what they are buying and can make their choice based on criteria such as energy efficiency and the lowest environmental cost.
in writing. the energy labelling directive ensures adequate information for consumers by making the energy label mandatory in advertising. in the context of europe's efforts to achieve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption levels, as well as to combat climate change, it is essential to mobilise citizens for this cause. this can only be achieved by providing consumers with clear and effective information on the energy consumption of products purchased or to be purchased. this is how all european citizens are involved in the fight against climate change. it is absolutely essential to ensure that consumers can make a conscious choice that is more environmentally friendly. as now safeguarded by this directive, the energy consumption levels of products are assessed by universal criteria and parameters, which allows for reliable terms of comparison, while improving the level of confidence in the technical assessment and the content of the labelled information. this directive thus has an important role to play in delivering the 2020 strategy and in particular in improving energy efficiency by 20% by 2020.
in writing. - after this vote, products related to energy consumption, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use, will have to carry the new energy efficiency label to better inform consumers. the directive adopted by the european parliament today provides for the addition of new classes to the energy efficiency classification and also applies to products which consume energy indirectly, such as windows. although some details are debatable, such as 'the label format will be based on the a to g classification as already used for refrigerators, but three additional classes may be added: a+, a++ and a+++ for the most efficient class', its objective seems correct. in principle, the total number of classes should be limited to seven. any advertising of energy-related products or their price should include a reference to the energy efficiency class. the information provided should guide consumers in choosing products that consume or indirectly lead to less energy consumption. any advertising on the price or energy efficiency of refrigerators, washing machines or stoves will therefore have to indicate the energy class of the product.
in writing. − the eu remains determined to find the best solutions for energy efficiency excellence, so as to achieve a 20% improvement in efficiency by 2020. this new labelling is very relevant for the consumer, as it gives him access to the most appropriate information to make his choices in full awareness of the effect of these choices in terms of energy efficiency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency of the buildings is not compromised. hence my vote.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has brought new responsibilities to the european parliament. this leads to an increased administrative burden and the need for members to have qualified staff to carry out advisory functions. this new reality brings two problems: the increased costs of requiring more assistants, and the physical space needed for them to perform their duties in good working conditions. this leads to increased costs, which in this time of crisis is difficult to explain, but if the european parliament is to do an excellent job it must have the necessary human and financial resources. hence my vote
in writing. - in the interests of transparency, which is necessary for citizens, and of rigor, i consider that the council is not relieved of its responsibility to be accountable to the public for the funds placed at its disposal. i therefore support the rapporteur's decision to postpone the decision on the discharge to the council until the additional information requested has been provided.
in writing. - in the interests of transparency and rigor, not only in budgetary executions but also in the overall monitoring of the use of all the european union's financial resources, i am voting in favour of postponing the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008, thus allowing the council to have the opportunity to secure all the clarifications and information that will guarantee a valid decision by the european parliament. this is absolutely essential for the credibility of the european institutions and for the confidence of the citizens in the established authorities. in addition, full compliance with the policies and guidelines set by the democratically and legally competent bodies is at stake.
in writing. − over the past five decades, organ transplantation has become a globally effective practice that contributes to improving the quality of life and increasing the life expectancy of patients. this directive lays down rules aimed at ensuring high standards of quality and safety for organs of human origin intended for transplantation into the human body, in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health. it introduces national quality programmes which set out standards and practices for the transplantation process in the member states. it also sets out more precisely the harvesting process and related issues such as the information system. traceability and protection of donors and recipients also deserve special attention. in view of the three main objectives of this proposal, namely to ensure quality and patient safety at community level, to ensure the protection of donors and to facilitate cooperation between member states, i voted in favour of this report. however, i would like to stress that organ transplant programmes must be based on the principle of voluntary and free donation, which has already been enshrined in previous legislation on substances of human origin, and must be careful about any form of marketing.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of health and safety at work. it is unacceptable that on average 12 people die every day waiting for a transplant. this directive will facilitate organ donation and transplantation and exchange between eu member states, to the benefit of thousands of european patients.
in writing. − the shortage of organs for transplantation has been fuelling an infamous market that mainly affects third world countries but has reached people in need in eastern europe. i am concerned about the difficulty of combating this brutal trade and the terrible consequences for those who are forcibly or unlawfully deprived of their organs: a drastic decline in the quality of life, chronic illness and often death. the adoption of common rules places the european union on a level of responsibility and responsibility that contrasts sharply with the grim reality i have described. patients and donors will have the conditions, support and protection that are lacking for those involved in trafficking networks, and member states will be able to cooperate more actively. i share the rapporteur's view that donation should be altruistic, voluntary and free and that the donor should only be compensated for the expenses and inconveniences associated with the gift. i think the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are correct and improve the basic text. they must have been aware of your medical training and the follow-up you have been giving to this issue since the last legislature.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal and welcome its three main objectives: to ensure quality and safety for patients at community level, to ensure the protection of donors and to facilitate cooperation between member states. in the european union there is generally a broad social consensus on organ donation for transplantation. however, due to differences in culture, tradition and organisation, there are different approaches to this issue in the member states. i would stress that, although the directive should maintain or seek to achieve harmonisation of quality and safety measures, it should not create an additional administrative burden for the member states and should provide for a sufficient margin of flexibility which does not jeopardise existing good practice. in order to ensure a high level of health protection throughout the eu, the proposed directive sets out common binding standards on the quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation. i support the commission's view that, in principle, organ transplant programmes should be based on the principle of voluntary and unpaid donation. organ donation must always be free of charge and protected against any possible commercialisation.
in writing. − organ transplantation is an important form of rehabilitation for patients suffering from a multitude of diseases that cause fatal organ failure. the number of transplants in the european union has been increasing, saving and prolonging many lives. however, there are still large waiting lists for transplants. our vote in favour expresses our agreement with the improvements which the report seeks to make in the face of the present situation, not only in terms of quality and safety, with the establishment of the necessary procedures for harvesting and transport, but also in terms of the protection of the donor and the recipient, with due regard to ethical principles and non-compensation. the report also addresses, in a way that seems to us to be correct, the worrying issue of trafficking in human beings and organs.
in writing. - the aim of this directive is quite clear, we need more organs for patients, more cooperation between member states in this area and the fight against organ trafficking. one of the main reasons for this new legislation is that it provides for the designation of an authority responsible in each member state for ensuring that the quality and safety standards of organs are met. these authorities will be responsible for ensuring the quality and safety of organs ' throughout the whole chain from donation to transplantation, as well as in the assessment of their quality and safety during patient recovery and subsequent follow-up'. the new directive also requires that healthcare professionals involved in all stages of the chain, from donation to transplantation or organ disposal, be appropriately qualified and specific training programmes should be developed for these professionals. for all these reasons we vote in favour. hence my vote.
in writing. − transplantation is one of the medical specialties which has developed the most in the last few decades and has achieved remarkable success, decisive in saving human lives. paradoxically, it was the success of transplantation that, among other factors, contributed to an increasing number of organ transplant candidates, thus giving rise to long waiting lists, as well as the human drama associated with the death of about 12 patients a day in the eu because they do not receive the organ they need to survive. one way of minimising this problem is through exchange between eu member states, ensuring better match between donor and recipient, a shorter time frame and a higher number of organs used. however, such exchanges require uniform high standards of quality and safety, which are laid down in this directive of the european parliament and of the council. the mikolášik report on the quality and safety standards of organs for transplantation is thus an important contribution to minimizing the shortage of organs, along with the fundamental protection of the health of the recipient and the living donor, for which we warmly welcome it.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the calendar of plenary sessions for 2011. i regret that 200 million euro per year is still being spent by the european taxpayer to hold 12 annual sessions in strasbourg. the hypocrisy goes so far as to disregard the precept of the treaties, which would mean holding a monthly session, also in august. the legitimate aspirations of the city of strasbourg could be met by the permanent establishment of one or two european union agencies in the city. as for the circus, it should obviously end! it is also pointless for the european parliament to meet 48 days a year in a city which has no direct air links with almost all the capitals of the member states. and the ones that do exist have business hours that are incompatible with parliamentary activity. it is easy to see that the heads of state and government who take these decisions travel by private plane and do not waste tens or hundreds of hours a year to get to strasbourg.
in writing. the motion for a resolution contains some pertinent reservations concerning the use of the enzyme preparation based on thrombin with fibrinogen as a food additive for the reconstitution of foods which we consider relevant. reservations which the commission's proposals do not entirely remove. there are still doubts about the possibility of using unpackaged reconstituted products, compromising the necessary consumer information, and about the effectiveness of the ban on the use of these products in restaurants and other public establishments serving food. the commission itself recognises that the use of this food additive may mislead the consumer as to the state of the final food. the proposed labelling solution, in view of the above, may not be sufficient in itself to remove this problem. there are also concerns about the food binding process (e.g. cold mixing without the addition of salt and without any subsequent heating process) and the safety of the final product. we therefore support this resolution.
in writing. the proposal that proposed that bovine and/or porcine thrombin be included in the list of food additives authorised in the eu. and it gave us no assurance that this substance would confer a clear advantage, that it would benefit consumers, and that in the end its use might even mislead consumers. in addition, the whole process of binding several pieces of meat significantly increases the surface area that can be infected by pathogenic bacteria. hence my vote.
in writing. − organ transplantation is essential in the treatment of certain diseases, has positive results in terms of years of life gained, improves the quality of life of patients and allows for a better cost-benefit ratio when compared to other replacement therapies. however, there are several factors to be aware of with this therapy, including the risk of disease transmission, limited organ supply and organ trafficking. there is currently no common european database on organs intended for donation and transplantation or on living or deceased donors, nor a pan-european certification system to attest to the legal procurement of organs and tissues from the human body. i voted in favour of this report, welcoming the action plan on donation and transplantation (2009-2015) adopted by the commission in december 2008, which sets out a cooperation approach between member states in the form of a set of priority actions, based on the identification and development of common objectives and the evaluation of donation and transplantation activities through defined indicators that can help identify benchmarks and good practices.
in writing. − the discrepancy in the percentage of organ donors in the various european countries seems to indicate that some of the member states' systems will be more effective than others and should therefore be studied and possibly adopted by those with lower success rates. in addition to the adoption of best practices, it is clear that, in a matter which is closely linked to the health and life of citizens, there is a need to optimise resources and to take collective advantage of the european scale of organ supply. it makes no sense for someone to die because they don't have an organ available in their country when, next door, it can exist and be available. i agree with the idea that those who encourage or promote so-called transplant tourism and the use of organ trafficking networks should be punished, particularly severely if they are health professionals or insurance companies. i would stress the need to provide effective support for both transplant recipients and the altruistic and voluntary donors, to whom our societies owe a debt of gratitude.
in writing. − currently, there are 56,000 patients in the eu waiting for a suitable organ donor and 12 people die every day waiting for a solid organ transplant. organ transplantation is virtually the only therapeutic option for patients with end-stage liver, heart and lung failure. however, there is a significant discrepancy between the number of patients waiting for a transplant and the number of patients who actually get a transplant. this discrepancy results from the shortage of organs for transplantation in relation to needs. the inclusion of more patients on waiting lists coupled with the minimal increase in the number of transplant patients is reflected in a longer waiting time. this time is costly and can have a negative impact on patient survival and transplant success rates. the commission proposal to draw up a european action plan on donation and transplantation for the period 2009-2015 sets out a cooperation approach between member states, based on a set of priority actions, and based on the identification and development of common objectives, the establishment of consensus quantitative and qualitative indicators and benchmarks, the submission of regular reports and the identification of good practice.
in writing. − organ transplantation can ensure a full and healthy life for many years for people who would otherwise often need intensive care or simply not survive. the number of transplants in the european union has been increasing, saving and prolonging many lives. however, there are still large waiting lists for transplants. 56 000 patients in the european union are waiting for a suitable organ donor and, according to estimates, 12 people die every day waiting for a solid organ transplant. the number of post-mortem donations is insufficient in itself and the number of living donors does not meet the needs. furthermore, there are wide discrepancies between member states as regards post-mortem organ donation rates, and there is currently no common eu-wide database on organs for donation and transplantation or living or deceased donors, nor a certification system to attest to the legal procurement of organs and tissues from the human body. it is in this context that the report under discussion proposes steps which we consider important for strengthening cooperation between member states in this field, from which all can benefit.
in writing. - we support this new directive for a variety of reasons, but above all because we believe that this is a decisive plan to save many lives in the eu. every day, 12 patients die and 60,000 are waiting for a compatible donor for organ transplantation in the u.s. transplantation has steadily increased over the past two decades and is the only treatment available for cases of terminal organ failure such as liver, lungs and heart. the death rates among people awaiting a coronary, liver or lung transplant are between 15% and 30%, so patients needing an organ transplant should have to wait less for this operation thanks to this new directive. hence my vote.
in writing. − this report sets out a series of actions aimed at promoting cooperation between member states in the field of transplantation in order to contribute to an increase in transplants, a reduction in waiting lists and, consequently, a reduction in the number of deaths of patients waiting for an organ. at the same time, the action plan also sets quality and safety standards common to the member states, which not only contributes to the protection of patients but also facilitates cooperation between states. the creation of national and eu-wide registries of transplantation procedures (avoiding discrimination, monitoring results, etc.) will allow for a broader and more accurate knowledge of the european reality, as well as reducing opportunities for organ trafficking. the report supports the action plan and stresses the need and urgency of the action lines outlined, while also developing a firm stance against all forms of organ trafficking in different parts of the world. i consider this report to be an important complement to the commission's communication and a valuable contribution to a pressing human cause in the context of health care for european citizens.
in writing. - human rights and fundamental freedoms are the set of values and principles that distinguish us as human beings and on which our coexistence is based. they are universal, indivisible and interdependent. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty is an important step in terms of human rights, not only because it gives the charter of fundamental rights a binding character, but also because by conferring legal personality on the eu, it allows the eu to accede to the echr. this accession is of the utmost importance both at political and legal level in creating a genuine area of human rights. as regards union action, to which member states have transferred important powers, it will ensure that citizens are afforded protection similar to that which they already enjoy vis-à-vis the member states. the european institutions are obliged to act accordingly, in particular during the process of drafting and adopting legislative proposals. on the other hand, the harmonisation of legislation and case law in the field of human rights between the eu and the echr should contribute to the creation of an integrated system in which the european courts for human rights (ecthr and ecthr) should operate in harmony, without a hierarchical link, but rather in terms of specialisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is a strong message that increases the union's credibility in the eyes of third countries which it regularly requires to respect the convention.
in writing. - the european union's accession to the convention follows the process initiated in maastricht to give the european community legal personality, which culminated in the treaty of lisbon. the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights, first with a narrow scope of application and then with its extension by incorporation into the treaty, was an important step in this process. the european union now participates more closely in a continental human rights area. i welcome this development. i hope that the various legal, technical and institutional questions which are now being raised can be solved on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and voluntary cooperation between states and respect for their sovereignty and for national legal systems and the rule of law.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report in favour of the union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights (echr). this is because accession is a step forward in the process of european integration and another step towards political union. furthermore, the union's system of protection of fundamental rights being completed and intensified by the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into its primary law, the accession of the union to the echr will constitute a strong message in terms of coherence between the union and the countries belonging to the council of europe and its pan-european human rights regime; this accession will further enhance the union's credibility vis-à-vis third countries, which it regularly requires, in the context of its bilateral relations, to respect the echr. this accession also guarantees citizens, as regards the union's action, protection similar to that which they already enjoy vis-à-vis all the member states.
in writing. − the eu's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms was already envisaged by the treaty on european union and, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it now becomes mandatory. accession will strengthen the protection of human rights in europe and subject the union's legal system to external judicial review, ensuring a harmonisation of case law between the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights and allowing european citizens to enjoy protection in relation to the action of the european institutions on terms analogous to those which already exist in relation to the member states. it should be noted that this accession does not make the eu a member of the council of europe nor does it call into question the principle of the autonomy of community law, since the court of justice remains the sole authority with jurisdiction over the validity and interpretation of union law. i would also stress the importance attached to the possibility for the union to nominate candidates and to choose a judge to represent it, the need mentioned to keep parliament duly informed about the accession negotiations and to establish in future a mechanism for exchanging information between the parliamentary assemblies of both institutions.
in writing. − the european union has been a strong advocate of the international criminal court and all its member states share its membership of this important court. i hope that the states parties will live up to their responsibilities and that the kampala conference will produce an international criminal court better equipped to meet the challenges of the present time, with appropriate cooperation from national legal systems and with sufficient means to exercise its powers effectively. the enormous gravity of the crimes on which your activity will preferentially focus thus demands it.
in writing. − the eu is a strong supporter of the icc (international criminal court), which promotes the universality and upholds the integrity of the rome statute, with a view to protecting and enhancing the independence, legitimacy and effectiveness of the international judicial process. this is demonstrated by the fact that the eu systematically promotes the inclusion of a clause on the icc in negotiating mandates and agreements with third countries. the eu has already made available over €40 million over ten years under the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) for projects to support the icc and international criminal justice. the review conference of the rome statute of the international criminal court in kampala, uganda, represents a unique opportunity for states parties, as well as non-state parties, civil society and other stakeholders, to strongly reiterate their commitment to justice and accountability. there are 111 states parties to the icc, with some regions, such as the middle east, north africa and asia, underrepresented. i hope that the member states will participate in this conference by making themselves represented at the highest level and by publicly reaffirming their commitment to the icc.
mr president, in this debate we want to say that it is time to put aside the word games and talk about the real problems that the majority of women and men are experiencing in our countries, the anxieties, the more than 85 million people living in poverty in a european union that is one of the richest areas in the world and where scandalous profits continue without any measures to stop them, the difficulties faced by workers with precarious and poorly paid work, the young people and women who cannot find a job, the more than 23 million unemployed, the elderly who are denied a decent pension, the children whose future is being mortgaged. let 's be clear: what they propose with this europe 2020 strategy is the same path that was at the origin of the crisis. the european commission has refused to analyse the causes of the current situation or to draw the consequences in relation to the main policy areas it has pursued in implementing the lisbon strategy: the liberalisation of economic sectors, including financial services, and labour flexibility, which it has called flexicurity. what they now want to do is to continue to pave the way for greater concentration of wealth through a series of directives which facilitate the privatisation of strategic sectors of the economy and attacks on public services of interest to economic groups in the areas of health, social security, education, anything that can make a profit. they prefer to think that only a break with these policies can lead to a change of direction and that only this can bring social progress, but it is this break that we insist on, saying that it is time to end the stability pact, to replace it with a programme of development and social progress, giving priority to production, to quality public services, to the creation of jobs with rights, wages, pensions and reforms, to social inclusion and to a fair distribution and distribution of income, which requires effective economic and social cohesion, with the clear reinforcement of the community budget, solidarity, public policies and state control of the fundamental sectors of the economy. we are sure that the workers and the people will continue to fight for this, just as they will tomorrow in greece, or next 29th in portugal, in the struggles that we welcome here.
mr president, we are facing an acceleration of global change which has devastating consequences for our economic, political and social systems and, therefore, for all our citizens. we are witnessing today an unprecedented weakening of the states' capacity to respond. the european union must therefore identify common causes and allies and act clearly and unitedly on the world stage. extraordinary situations require lucidity of joint action. if we do not take the necessary measures of rigour and collective responsibility, europe will be condemned to marginalization and impoverishment, and only a strong europe, respecting its common rules, will be able to respond adequately to the new times. weak and indebted states are not able to protect their citizens. we must therefore be able to win back the confidence of the citizens, to win the battles of stability, budgetary austerity, job creation, the stability of monetary union, globalisation and strategic choices. this is on the off chance that we have our future compromised. and the future is won by betting on social cohesion, ensuring peace, building a new model based on the values of freedom, social justice and responsibility. the 2020 strategy and the europe 2020 integrated guidelines are thus essential instruments for a new cycle of growth and jobs in europe. for proper implementation and achievement, clear and quantifiable targets need to be set in employment, education and poverty reduction. it is also crucial for the success of the strategy that everything is done to facilitate the transposition of the national objectives by the member states and to ensure the proper implementation of the strategy.
mr president, a debate on the europe 2020 strategy naturally leads to acceptance of better coordination of the different national policies, more europe and acceptance of the path of structural reforms to achieve growth in our economy. but to get to 2020 we will have to get through 2010 and in that sense i want to draw attention to the balance needed between fiscal consolidation policies and the need not to fall into recession. i am a portuguese national and at this very moment the proposal that is being made is a proposal for a tax increase. the way forward should be primarily between the member states, to take up the need to reduce public spending seriously. to have tax systems that are competitive and to make the structural reforms to achieve the growth we need. we have to think beyond the medium and long term, to the short term. and start encouraging the existence of creative enterprises now. the bet on universities, the bet on research and development, because it's something that is very clear today. to make it to 2020 we're going to have to make it out of 2010. and i wanted to leave that concern here. we have a stability pact, of course, but we also have a growth pact, and the key word for our economies in the near future is growth.
madam president, universities are the backbone of europe. they're probably our best creation. there was europe in the universities of the 12th century, in bologna, in coimbra, in oxford, in the sorbonne, long before there was political europe. on the other hand, the world of business and business management as we know it today is 30, 40 years old. it's postwar. so take advantage of it because it's one of the few times a member of the left in parliament is going to ask you a conservative question. do you really want to hand over a european creation with centuries of history or a business doctrine with a few decades? delivering the corporate world, as we have done for the last few decades, and that's what this is all about, is inevitably delivering in the short term. now to train plastic engineers to be unemployed in three years, to then train a type of financial manager who will be unemployed in four years, and what i want to ask european parents here, from portugal to estonia, is: what do you prefer? do you prefer your children to be educated according to the dictates of the short-term market, or do you prefer that they have the most solid and broadest possible education, the most general possible, as has always been the case in european universities, which will enable them to be in the labour market now, in the coming decades and throughout their lives? i leave this question.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the single market is not a purely economic reality. it is essential to ensure that the revitalization of the single market takes a holistic approach that integrates consumer objectives, economic, social and environmental concerns, for a renewed single market.
in writing. − the internal market and related policies have enabled european citizens to have greater access to goods and services, greater variety and at lower cost. the principles of the internal market have given european consumers greater access to information and greater protection of their rights, but they have also become more aware of their duties. the internal market is therefore not a static reality but a dynamic, changing reality in a globalised world, and one in which its development and further implementation must continue to be considered. i agree with the rapporteur and stress the importance of the internal market of the european union for european integration itself, for greater social cohesion, sustainable development, competitiveness and economic growth which will enable us to face future developments and compete in a globalised world.
in writing. − the construction of a fully functioning integrated european single market is a fundamental process for the deepening of european integration, social cohesion, economic growth and sustainable development of the union. but the economic crisis has undoubtedly affected citizens' and consumers' confidence in the single market. it is important that the european citizen understands the importance of the single market, how it works and, most importantly, the benefits it can bring to citizens, consumers and smes. revitalising the single market requires a common holistic approach by its various players to integrate the objectives of consumers and citizens, particularly those linked to economic, social, health and environmental concerns, in a renewed single market. this new programme for the completion of the single market must be designed in such a way as to promote social justice, ensure market integrity, encourage innovation and promote the transition to the new digital age. these are imperatives which could give the single market competitive advantages over other major world economies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-way street.
in writing. − the construction of a single market has always been and remains one of the eu's main objectives. a fully functioning single market is a fundamental process for deepening european integration, social cohesion, economic growth and sustainable development in the eu. the recent financial crisis has raised some doubts about the timing of the single market, with some arguing that it is in a fragile state, which is very damaging to the process of integration of the single market and the history of the union itself. it is very important at this stage to find a tool that informs eu citizens in a clear and unambiguous way about how the single market works and the great benefits it can bring to consumers and smes. hence my vote.
in writing. - the priority given to knowledge is more important than ever. more needs to be done in the area of the knowledge triangle, by adopting a framework of reforms necessary to make knowledge a social value, by strengthening the links between enterprises and universities, as in the case of the knowledge and innovation communities (kics) of the european institute of technology (eit). it is essential that universities integrate the economic and social environment into their main sphere of action, within the framework of their research and innovation programmes. it is urgent to develop a strategy of investing in new sources of growth, fostering research, development, innovation and education to strengthen our industrial base, a service sector of excellence and a modern rural economy. the role of higher education institutions, universities and polytechnics, both public and private, will be of enormous value in a context of state confidence in these institutions, which should enjoy autonomy so that they can make their indispensable contribution to the development of europe. it is necessary to strengthen both the interdisciplinarity and transdisciplinarity of education and research programmes and cooperation between universities, and that in this respect icts are a key instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the dialogue between universities and enterprises: a new partnership for the modernisation of european universities, because it presents measures which contribute to the increase of the employability of european students. cooperation between the education sector and enterprises is essential to closing the gap between the supply of education and the demand for employment.
in writing. − i believe that partnerships which enable the modernisation of universities, especially those which promote better education and qualifications for individuals, are essential to increasing european competitiveness. this qualification will be reflected in the level of innovation, research and development which are indispensable for sustained economic and social growth. partnerships between universities and enterprises should be established to facilitate the entry of these workers into the labour market, thus contributing to the reduction of the high unemployment rates that are particularly evident today. in this context, i would also like to stress the importance of the european union's cohesion policy, whose funds will be extremely useful for this purpose.
in writing. − the lisbon european council in march 2000 and the barcelona european council in march 2002 endorsed the strategic objective of making the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world and its education and training systems a world reference in terms of quality by 2010 and of creating the european research and innovation area. member states are responsible for education and training policy and the eu's role is to support the improvement of national systems through new eu-wide instruments, mutual learning and the exchange of information and good practice. the knowledge-based economy and the accelerated pace of technological development pose challenges to higher education and research in europe, but they also open up new opportunities which must be effectively exploited. in this context, it is of the utmost importance to create quality partnerships in higher education and in business. i believe that cooperation between the education sector and enterprises at local, regional, national and transnational level is crucial to closing the gap between the supply logic of the education sector and the demand logic of the world of work.
in writing. - the report on the dialogue between universities and enterprises takes a position which we do not understand as the path to the modernisation of education. we must take very seriously the risks that impede free, public and democratic access to education. we believe that it is urgent to acknowledge the mistakes made in the bologna process and, contrary to what the rapporteur says about bologna, to demystify the question of mobility as a means of bringing the member states closer together and of achieving equality. in addition, it should be borne in mind that the bologna process is not neutral, it involved an initial investment, which followed in parallel a policy of discharge of the state in respect of the financing of universities. the issue of university autonomy is mentioned several times in the report, and the idea of 'partnership' between universities and enterprises is added as a way of securing funding for institutions. this university-enterprise concept distorts the real meaning and value of education as a universal right, and shapes education according to a mercantilist vision, taking away its content and quality. it's a neoliberal view that we oppose.
in writing. − university-enterprise dialogue is essential for the quality training that is intended for young people in the eu. cooperation between the education sector and enterprises at all levels is essential to bring the supply logic of the education sector and the demand logic of the world of work closer together. partnerships between education and training institutions and enterprises are essential to increase students' employability, improve entrepreneurial potential and facilitate familiarity with the world of work. hence my vote.
in writing. − the rules in force in the central and eastern european countries before accession were less stringent than the rules applied in the eu at the time. this has necessitated eu intervention and financial assistance to improve the level of protection of human health and the environment. it is in this context that we are voting on this proposal. the commission proposal for a regulation provides for financial assistance for the dismantling of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power station in bulgaria and also for the treatment of the radioactive substances resulting from this operation. the rapporteur believes that the lack of eu assistance could compromise safety, as wwer 440/230 reactors (as is the case) have serious design deficiencies that could not be overcome.
in writing. − the protection and enhancement of human health and the environment are priority objectives in european development policies. in this connection, i consider it absolutely necessary that the european union should safeguard the appropriate financial and technical resources for the dismantling of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant in bulgaria, as the european parliament is advocating in this resolution. europe is thus avoiding a pole of high radioactive emissions and the risk of serious accidents. in addition to the safety conditions of decommissioning operations, it is urgent that the european community should play an active role in supporting bulgaria to overcome the negative effects of decommissioning on the competitiveness of the economy, energy sustainability and the dynamisation of the labour market. in this context, the eu intervention strategy should ensure support for the creation of new jobs and sustainable industries in the areas affected by decommissioning.
in writing. − with the accession of the countries of central and eastern europe to the eu and the use of nuclear energy by these countries, the eu has found it necessary to provide financial assistance to these countries to deal effectively with radioactive waste in order to improve the level of protection of human health and the environment. the financial support approved here fits into the above framework. hence my vote.
in writing. − innovation is most effectively addressed at regional level through proximity of actors such as universities, public research organisations or industry, promoting partnerships in the field of knowledge transfer and the exchange of good practice between regions. cohesion policy is a key pillar of the european integration process and one of the eu's most successful policies, bringing increasingly heterogeneous regions together and stimulating economic growth and job creation. it is essential to promote and implement successful models in the knowledge triangle and to ensure the sustainable development of regional strategic research frameworks for innovation, in collaboration with companies, research centres, universities and public authorities; unlock the potential of cutting-edge regional clusters based on knowledge to mobilise regional competitiveness and the inclusion of cluster development in both the cip and fp7. i would like to draw attention to the importance of the knowledge and innovation communities set up within the eit, which bring together the main european regional knowledge-based clusters; i would also like to see the structural funds promoting the exchange of knowledge in regional clusters, since these clusters represent a great opportunity, especially for the less-favoured regions.
in writing. − i think it is relevant to look at how the indicative framework of the community strategic guidelines on cohesion for 2007-2013, and in particular guideline 1.2, improving knowledge and innovation for growth, has been followed by the member states and regions in their respective national strategic reference frameworks (nsrfs) and operational programmes. this analysis provides a more concrete view of what has been achieved and of the challenges that remain to be overcome in a subject that is increasingly on the agenda. in a time of crisis, when it is not only healthy but also urgent to avoid waste and duplication, i believe it is important to make a thorough assessment of the way in which cohesion, research and innovation policies and their instruments (structural funds, seventh framework programme for r & d and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme) are articulated in order to make them more efficient and productive.
in writing. − research and innovation are priority areas and absolutely crucial for the competitiveness and success of the european economy in the current global context of crisis, strong competition and increased effort to face new challenges such as climate change and territorial cohesion. this crisis intensifies the risks of regional imbalances and worsening economic and social conditions in the most disadvantaged regions. in this respect, i support this resolution, which stresses the urgency of making access to the structural funds more effective, flexible and simplified, in order to ensure rapid access to support and financing mechanisms for new business projects and the revitalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises. this is a strategy of great relevance and importance for the territorial cohesion of the european union, while ensuring that this crisis becomes an opportunity to capitalise on potential and improve efficiency in the return on resources.
in writing. − cohesion policy is a key pillar of the european integration process and one of the union's most successful policies, fostering convergence between regions and stimulating economic growth and job creation through structural fund funding. in the current 2007-2013 period, all member states allocate a significant share of their total financial allocations to innovation and development activities. i believe that cohesion policy is well placed to create synergies with research and innovation policies in terms of funds and capacity building, networking and knowledge transfer. better use of funds will lead to greater development of research, knowledge and innovation capacity in the various regions, and the territorial dimension will be strengthened in partnerships for the design and implementation of public policies. this report is an initiative which i support because i consider it essential to implement synergies between the structural funds for research and innovation and the funding of the seventh framework programme for research and technological development activities with a view to achieving the goal of the knowledge society more efficiently.
in writing. - in the present situation, where many states are facing serious difficulties in their public finances, it is essential to adopt policy measures that lead to economic and social stability, but above all that stimulate growth. in addition to the deficit, the level of public debt needs to be analysed, and best practices on this issue adopted, in order to allow for a more stable situation so that the mistakes of the past are not repeated in the future. i also believe that it is essential to adopt reasonable criteria for the concept of a recovered economy, since the situations differ from one country to another. finally, i would stress the need for a competitive tax policy, not only for the eu but also for investments in third countries.
in writing. − as the current crisis demonstrates with its profound impacts on economic development, citizens' quality of life and social stability, the sustainability of public finances is a decisive condition for economic recovery and development reliability. the insufficiency of the revision of the stability and growth pact has also become apparent. i therefore reiterate the need to strengthen the mechanisms of the european union institutions, always in the interests of greater integration and territorial cohesion, to ensure greater capacity for intervention and defence to counter risks and deviations from common policies. i would also like to stress the social concerns raised in this report, which points to the profound disparities between citizens' incomes, a situation which is detrimental to the productivity and competitiveness of the economy. i therefore support the need to encourage member states to introduce the appropriate reforms to reduce these imbalances. tax justice and the efficiency of public administration expenditure are fundamental to the process of economic recovery and social cohesion. reducing poverty, ensuring social cohesion and promoting growth and productivity in the economy are unquestionable priorities in the european union, to which a gradual reduction in the tax burden on labour and smes will certainly contribute.
in writing. − the main objective of this report was to analyse the long-term sustainability of public finances in the european union with a view to its economic recovery. the plenary debate could not have come at a more opportune time in view of the unprecedented economic and financial understanding reached last week between european leaders. the measures taken, including the unblocking of aid to greece, the acceleration of the consolidation of public finances in the member states and the creation of a financial stabilisation mechanism, demonstrate strong solidarity but also point to a period of sacrifice that will affect all europeans. these sacrifices must be distributed in a fair and balanced way. this is a time for courageous decisions at national level with a long-term perspective and without any easy-going approaches. balance of public accounts is achieved by a cut in expenditure, an increase in revenue or both simultaneously. in a period of economic contraction, we have nothing left but to reduce public expenditure substantially by cutting waste and optimising the way the state functions. after several amendments, the final content of this proposal addresses some of these challenges and for that reason i gave my vote in favour of it.
in writing. − i vote overall in favour of the proposals in this report which seek to include cohesion policy in the pursuit of the objectives set out in strategy 2020. the new treaty of lisbon reinforces the principle of economic, social and territorial cohesion, and without this solidarity clause the european union itself is meaningless! the ultimate objective of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities in the levels of development of the various european regions and to make up for the structural backwardness of the less-favoured regions and the outermost regions. in the approach to strategy 2020 - which is committed to promoting growth, competitiveness and employment - it is important to bear in mind that cohesion policy can be an important instrument for the success of the objectives it sets.
in writing. - the ultimate objective of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities in the levels of development of the various regions by directing resources, in particular, towards growth and employment. the 2020 strategy presents important and ambitious challenges for europe in five strategic areas: (i) employment; (ii) innovation and research; (iii) climate and energy changes; (iv) education and (v) the fight against poverty. this is an ambitious and daring strategy, as i have had the opportunity to refer to. the rapporteur also stressed the need to design the strategy in line with a future cohesion policy, ensuring that the 2020 strategy is also implemented at regional and local level, something which was missing from the lisbon strategy and which is essential for the development and economic growth of the various regions. as i have had the opportunity to state publicly, i consider that a regional implementation of the objectives of strategy 2020 can be most beneficial for a more balanced regional development.
in writing. - in the european development project, much progress is needed in terms of territorial cohesion, which is crucial in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the promotion of employment and sustainable development, and social cohesion. i have no doubt that smes have a decisive role to play in the success of the construction of europe. i therefore welcome the recommendations in this report, such as the need to simplify the rules for access to and management of the allocation of funds made available, in order to encourage their use and the effectiveness of their application, covering the whole of the eu. regions implement more than one third of public investment in the eu and increasingly focus structural fund spending on growth and employment-related objectives. i consider it essential that the eu swiftly adopt specific provisions and measures to 'meet the specific needs of regions suffering from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps, in particular coastal, island, mountain, cross-border and outermost regions'. i also reiterate that 'vocational education and training are indispensable for the development of the eu and can make it more competitive in the face of global challenges'.
in writing. - the rapporteur regrets that strategy 2020 has not properly incorporated a review of the results of the lisbon strategy, an opinion which we share. if the declared objectives of the lisbon strategy - economic growth, employment and social cohesion - have not been achieved, but have been set back, it is because of the instruments of the lisbon strategy - which were also its objectives! i am very much in favour of liberalization and privatization and the deregulation and flexibilization of labour legislation. options, instruments and objectives now taken up by strategy 2020. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. it is precisely this 'free, open and functioning market' that has led to more poverty, social exclusion and undermined territorial cohesion in the eu. that is why we do not accept alignment of cohesion policy with this strategy. the real objective of the community is to reduce disparities in the levels of development of the various regions and to establish genuine economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. − this resolution is an important document, as it sets out the best ways of the necessary link between cohesion policy and the eu 2020 strategy. in a period of renewed reflection on european cohesion policy, with a post-2013 horizon, it is indeed important to present it as an indispensable instrument for the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy, in the reiterated assertion that cohesion policies are essential to delivering on the eu's overriding design of integration. cohesion policy has been decisive for a better balance of european regions and is now being pointed out as a key factor in overcoming the current financial crisis in the european union by strengthening competitiveness with endogenous potential. in a present without any increase in the eu budget and with pressures on the cohesion policy budget (around 45% of the eu budget), we believe that a good articulation between the objectives of cohesion policy and the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy is essential in order to simultaneously strengthen cohesion and contribute to a positive response from all regions and all citizens to the challenges facing the eu.
in writing. − cohesion policy is a key policy for achieving the objectives of the 2020 strategy: promoting education, training and research, job creation and economic growth. following the shortcomings of the lisbon strategy in achieving the cohesion objective, namely the lack of adequate consultation of the european parliament and the involvement of regional and local authorities, the report stresses the importance of the contribution of cohesion policy to future strategic objectives. it is therefore important to move towards greater ownership of the objectives of the strategy by local and regional authorities and bodies. the regions have a crucial role to play as a vehicle for economic and social actors, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. only a strong cohesion policy, given its horizontal approach and adequately funded, will be able to foster development in the european union and make it more competitive in the face of global challenges. the regional dimension of europe must be strengthened by a strategy which takes account of the specificities of the various regions or groups of regions, such as the outermost regions. for the reasons i have outlined, i consider cohesion policy to be an essential instrument for achieving the objectives of strategy 2020 and i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − following the paris declaration of 13 july 2008 establishing the new union for the mediterranean, the previous barcelona process should have been given a new impetus, as expressed in the declaration: 'revitalisation of efforts to transform the mediterranean region into an area of peace, democracy, cooperation and prosperity'. however, 2009 was a year of major changes for the european union (european elections, the president of the commission, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the fight against the economic and financial crisis, etc.) which delayed the implementation of the union for the mediterranean. i believe that this report correctly identifies the next steps to be taken to achieve the objectives set out in the establishment of the union for the mediterranean and i look forward to the outcome of the second summit of heads of state or government, scheduled for 7 june in barcelona. the strengthening of the union's mediterranean relations is fundamental and i believe that only political dialogue and closer cooperation between the union and the other mediterranean countries will help to create an area of freedom, justice, peace and sustainable and lasting prosperity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the union for the mediterranean (upm) in advocating greater involvement of the european parliament in the development of this regional initiative. it is essential that the european parliament can make its contribution to the success of the summit to be held in barcelona next june, the outcome of which, after two years of difficult start, will be of enormous importance for the future of the upm.
in writing. - any dispassionate observer will say that the euro-mediterranean partnership has not progressed as much as it should and that much remains to be done before it can take on a real form and a concrete and productive content. historically, the mediterranean has united more than it has separated. the cultures that grew up around it formed the core of what was western civilization, and both shores contributed to forging identities with obvious affinities. the religious wars have dug a hole where there used to be a bridge. this bridge, which, in a way, still stands today. i hope that the european union, together with its partners, will take concrete steps to promote and structure a euro-mediterranean partnership capable of overcoming fears, differences and mistrust and of projecting itself decisively into the future. both shores of what was once the inland sea of a thriving civilization would have everything to gain from this evolution.
in writing. - the deepening of relations with the mediterranean countries is particularly important at this time, given the increasingly precarious economic and social situation in the southern countries. in this respect, i consider it urgent that concrete and effective progress be made in consolidating the union for the mediterranean. the deepening of euro-mediterranean relations is all the more urgent because of the impact it will certainly have on the consolidation of an area of peace and cultural, economic, political and social development. i would, however, stress the worries that are warranted in the situations concerning women's rights, gender equality and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation - areas where the strengthening of european influence could be a factor in more positive developments. the enormous potential of renewable energy sources in the mediterranean region is an example of the added value that the european union can exploit and leverage for the implementation of energy efficiency policies, as well as extending the eu's trading space to 800 million people.
in writing. - we strongly disagree with the guidelines set out in this report, which essentially point to the attempt to extend the economic dominance of large eu companies over the southern part of the mediterranean, access to and control over natural resources, particularly energy, the exploitation of the labour force and the repression of immigrants. it is remarkable how the majority of meps seem to live on a glass roof, totally insensitive to the consequences of so-called free trade, insisting on these policies and thus contributing to the worsening of the situation. for example, in portugal, more than 100 000 jobs in the textile sector have disappeared, due to the closure of thousands of companies, also due to increasing external competition. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the last few years, and it is a great help to the people of europe in the future. we demand the establishment of fair and just economic relations, at the service of the peoples and countries of both regions.
in writing. - i agree with this report overall, as i believe that after the prague summit joint declaration on the eastern partnership, the eu should strengthen its partnerships to the east and specifically with the 3 countries of the south caucasus, through a clear and well-defined strategy. maintaining peace, stabilising borders and resolving border disputes, making progress towards democratization, the rule of law and promoting regional cooperation are essential for the development of this region of the world. i therefore believe that the eu should guide its action by encouraging sustainable development, based on the principles of good governance, absolute respect for human rights and good neighbourly policies, which should have peaceful coexistence between these countries and their neighbours as their main objective. in this connection, i would like to highlight the important role that the eu-eastern neighbourhood parliamentary assembly (euronest) can play. the geostrategic importance of the region, particularly in terms of the supply or transport of raw materials between east and west, should be an important element to be taken into account in the establishment of future agreements between the eu and these countries.
in writing. - the recent conflict between russia and georgia, a country which has been proclaiming its desire to join the european union and its adherence to its values, makes clear the urgency of defining a strategy for the south caucasus region. historically plagued by bloody conflicts and largely placed in the orbit of russian influence, the south caucasus has been rehearsing timid steps towards stabilisation, but remains hotbeds of potential conflict that must be treated with the utmost attention and seriousness. the tense relationship between armenia and azerbaijan is a good example of this. i hope that the european union will deepen its knowledge of this region and contribute to peace and progress among the peoples of the south caucasus, as well as to the general acceptance and respect in the region of freedom, democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. in the enlargement policy and in the strengthening of the european union's commercial, political and cultural relations with third countries, the strategic importance of the south caucasus countries, armenia, azerbaijan and georgia is underlined. given the geostrategic situation of these countries, which are neighbours of the powerful russia, turkey and iran, the european union can and must play a decisive role in influencing and promoting peace and security in this region, which will be decisive in ensuring the best conditions for economic, cultural and social development and the democratisation of this region, which is also surrounded by the black and caspian seas. the process of deepening relations aimed at integrating these countries into the european union will certainly contribute to strengthening the levels of justice, freedom and human progress. i also support the report's call for a strategy for the development of energy markets in the european union.
in writing. − this report on the eu strategy for the caucasus is another element of the dissemination of a narrow and very focused view of the 2008 conflict between russia and georgia and the territorial and sovereignty issues of the latter over south ossetia and abkhazia, in order to camouflage its economic and geopolitical interests in this region. what is at stake, as the report itself says, is that the three caucasus countries are essential for the transit of energy resources and the supply of the eu, on which the eu is very much dependent, free trade agreements to make the economies more attractive to foreign investors. it is on the basis of these interests that one must understand the implicit support for the relaunch of the arms race and the militaristic escalation in the region, in which the eu takes sides in the arms race between the usa, nato and russia. it is in this same vein that we can understand the hypocrisy of the majority of the ep, which is proud to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states when it comes to georgia, and has promoted, supported and supports the process of kosovo's secession from serbia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in organising farcical elections and refusing a national dialogue involving all political and ethnic groups, the junta shows that the ‘pragmatic’ engagement with it is not working at all. the international community must act against the oppressors of the burmese people. the eu can do much more than just renewing sanctions on the regime. it should use all means to strengthen civil society and assist those who resist oppression in burma. it must work to mobilise the un, asean and the usa to put pressure on china and india to end their support for the burmese regime and to stop the arms trade going on, namely with north korea. the un special rapporteur on the human rights situation in burma concluded last march that ‘human rights violations are the result of a state policy that involves authorities in the executive, military and judiciary at all levels’ and that these human rights violations ‘may entail categories of crimes against humanity or war crimes under the terms of the [rome] statute of the international criminal court’. his predecessor had already called for the un security council to investigate crimes against humanity in burma, as it did in rwanda, bosnia and darfur. what are eu member states waiting for to ask the un security council to refer the criminals in power in burma to the international criminal court?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we are discussing here today the mandate of parliament in the negotiations with the commission and the council for the 2011 budget. it is a difficult mandate because it takes place in a context of widespread reduction and contraction of budgetary policies at european level. the european unitary left is openly opposed to the haunting and haunting rehabilitation of a new wave of stability programmes, aimed at reducing state deficits, which will eventually plunge europe into a new recession. the european budget proposal, which forms the basis of the mandate we are now discussing, is not limited only by the existing treaties or by a multiannual financial framework which should have been revised long ago. it is still a hostage to this model, which i have tried to criticize here in a very brief way. with the 27 member states drastically cutting spending, it is not a european budget, which weighs 1% of european gdp, that will make up for it. none of the priorities put forward by parliament can be satisfactorily met with a budget proposal of €130 billion. the mandate insists on youth, but it's obvious that it's been sacrificed on the altar of narrow-minded accounts. we insist on the environment, but it's obvious that governments only want to hear about these commitments well into the future. we call for urgency and solidarity in support of palestine and the palestinians, but it is obvious that this is not a priority for the commission. after what happened to the freedom fleet, that's unworthy to say the least.
the failure of the governments of the member states to reach agreement has rendered unviable the first attempt at a community legal instrument to ensure greater uniformity in procedural safeguards throughout the union. this new gradual approach starts with the right to translation and interpretation in criminal proceedings and is the first of six measures in the roadmap. at present, the right to a written translation of important documents in the case does not exist in all member states. and even when it does exist, that right can vary considerably. for example, the right to interpretation between the suspect and his lawyer is not always guaranteed. this directive allows these rights to be conferred on any person suspected or accused of having committed a criminal offence until the end of the proceedings. i support the agreement reached in the trilogue. the commitments made make it possible to respond to most of the concerns, both those expressed by parliament and those resulting from the commission's proposal. i congratulate commissioner reding on having put forward a good proposal in good time and i congratulate our rapporteur, baroness ludford, on the commitments she has been able to secure on most of the points. i would particularly stress the written translation of the essential documents in the case and the guarantee that the level of protection should never be lower than that provided for in the european convention on human rights and the european charter of fundamental rights. i hope that the member states will implement what has been agreed quickly and not leave the transposition of this important directive to the last minute. i was very pleased to hear commissioner reding assure me that she will immediately put forward further proposals under the road map, and i would encourage her to do so. we must make it clear that we are building a europe of justice in a coherent way and not just a europe of security and a europe of freedom. finally, i am pleased to note that all member states, with the exception of denmark, will be covered by these rules, since both the united kingdom and ireland have exercised their opt-in rights.
a free trade agreement is being concluded between the european union, colombia and peru, which further opens our market to agricultural products which are absolutely key to the outermost regions. i'm talking about the banana, the rum and the sugar. the agreement guarantees european companies easy access to the manufacturing market in these two countries and will benefit member states that export high technology and import agricultural goods. but this agreement objectively harms the outermost regions as a whole, whose vulnerability is well known. the canary islands alone lost about 20% of the market share in banana sales in the first four months of the year. but let it be clear that we are not against the agreement. the only requirement is that the impact of this agreement on the regions most affected by it - see the example of banana producers in madeira and the canary islands - be assessed and that compensatory measures be defined to minimise the damage caused.
madam president, a complaint and an appeal. a complaint about an environmental crime: 320 000 tonnes of highly hazardous waste, deposited between 2001 and 2002 in a densely populated area of northern portugal, in the open air, contaminating soil and water, products with very high levels of lead, zinc, cadmium, chromium, arsenic, and the portuguese national authorities, despite being warned, do not intervene. in fact, in this parliamentary term the socialist government, in reply to a member of the portuguese parliament, has confirmed that this intervention did not take place, an intervention which, in a previous parliamentary term, another socialist minister for the environment had assured would take place, and therefore also an appeal, madam president, for the european institutions to intervene. i have already asked the european commission to intervene. i am making this complaint today in the european parliament and i hope that a resolution which i intend to table can be discussed and voted on so that people's health is not put at risk any longer.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, we are once again in a fundamental debate for the defence of the rights of road transport workers and road safety. it is unacceptable that the european commission has been insisting since october 2008 on amending the 2002 directive and now wants to exclude so-called independent drivers from its application and to worsen the working conditions of everyone, in particular by extending working hours to unbearable levels, just to facilitate greater profits for the large employers in the sector. for example, so-called self-employed drivers could be working up to 86 hours a week, all year round, which would not only jeopardise their health and safety, but would also be a danger to the road safety of all road users, and encourage social dumping and labour deregulation by multiplying the number of so-called self-employed drivers. the committee on employment and social affairs has already rejected the proposal twice, but unfortunately the rapporteur, with the support of the european commission and the council, insisted on continuing negotiations on the proposal for a directive on her own, as if the decision of the committee on employment and social affairs did not exist. so we are here in a very serious situation which must merit the clear opposition of the majority of this european parliament - which has just been called into question by the commissioner. the proposal for a rejection which we support is therefore aimed at preventing this serious threat to workers' rights and the safety of all those who travel on the roads of the european union from continuing. we therefore call for the rejection of the european commission's proposal and for compliance with the 2002 directive, which should have been applied to self-employed drivers since 2009 to combat social dumping, defend the right to health and rest for workers in the sector and improve road safety conditions.
mr president, food labelling is crucial to ensuring food safety. i am in favour of clear information for the consumer, but at the same time less red tape, simplification of regulations, greater legal certainty and increased competitiveness of the food industry, without ever forgetting small businesses. direct marketing by farmers and local and artisanal products cannot be subject to the rules of this regulation. it's products like these that ensure our diversity, that ensure our deepest roots. we must inform the consumer, but without pressuring him to make a choice, or stigmatising our regional products. the commission proposal is excessively paternalistic because it seeks to guide the consumer rather than inform him. some people want to make us the menu, some people want to tell us the dishes we can or cannot eat. i can assure you that the portuguese, and in particular the people of minho, will never stop eating the pica on the ground, the cabidela rice, they will never stop eating the green broth, the portuguese-style stew, accompanied by some good regional sweets and a red green malga. i therefore welcome the amendments, the adjustments and the work done by the rapporteur, agreeing with her position and her report and arguing that the consumer must be aware and well informed, but it is he who must decide and who has this responsibility.
mr president, good food labelling is essential. the indication of the place of origin is important, as is the indication of the fat, sugar and salt content. the information must therefore be clear, accessible to be effective and contain only the essentials, but this does not imply that certain traditional products which are, in some cases, manifestations of the culture of certain european regions cannot or should not be exempted. as regards wine, i think it should also be exempted for two reasons: the commission has already adopted a regulation on this subject. the wine contains no fat or sugar, it contains alcohol, the grading of which is already indicated on the current labelling and is even recommended as red wine by the world health organization. on the other hand, the new labels would only harm an economic sector already in serious difficulties.
in writing. the sommer report is important not only for creating informed consumers but also for avoiding market distortions and catalysing the european economy through mechanisms for transparency and uniform application of rules in the eu. i am surprised to see attempts to integrate wine into this labelling system with information on energy value and sugar content resurfacing in the form of amendments to the plenary. the wine already contains a number of mandatory labelling requirements, so adding new requirements will make it cumbersome, difficult to read and of little practical value. the special labelling requirements for wine are historically explained by the fact that wine is a highly regulated product with specific characteristics, which should benefit from this proposed derogation so that the five years of exemption allow for a prudent analysis of the references that should be on the label. the financial crisis affecting europe today calls for caution in a context where the wine sector is composed mainly of smes; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised. in this context, i consider it inappropriate and wrong to label wine in the light of this regulation under consideration.
mr president, it is exactly on this point that i agree with mr gollnisch for once, though i hope for the first and last time. the fact is that with 621 members voting the majority needed to be at least 311. i am very glad of the result because our candidate had 334, so he was elected in any case, but i beg you to correct this because if this program is in the computer it is definitely mathematically wrong.
in writing. - the increase in unemployment is one of the most serious consequences of the recent economic and financial crisis. this worsening of market instability has contributed to the worsening of the situation of a number of companies which have been showing themselves to be less able to adapt to globalisation. in the present case, 181 companies in the valencian community were affected. the spanish state has given adequate reasons for its request to mobilise the fund, and i believe that this should support its claim.
in writing. - i consider that there is no doubt about the relevance of special support for workers made redundant and affected by the current world economic situation, as in the case of the 2,425 redundancies in 181 companies in the spanish community of valencia. the application of aid for the re-qualification and reintegration of these workers into the labour market is of great importance, not only for economic dynamism but also for social stability. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution. i repeat the recommendation to the commission not to use the transfer of appropriations from the european social fund to ensure payments under the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund). these funds have different but complementary objectives and cannot replace each other. as an extraordinary measure, the egf must have an autonomous financing and it is a very serious mistake if the financing of the egf, a short-term measure, is made at the expense of the european social fund or any other structural fund.
in writing. - the eu is an area of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and it is now necessary to provide this aid to the valencian community in spain, following the recent unemployment of over 2,400 workers in 181 enterprises in the sector of 'manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products'. hence my vote.
in writing. the european union is the main donor to the international fund for ireland, accounting for about 57% of annual contributions. i therefore welcome the role which the european community has played in supporting the economic and social development of ireland with a view to achieving peace and reconciliation. the current period of activity is coming to an end, but it would be important for the european community to continue contributing to the international fund for ireland, promoting the objectives of building bridges and integrating communities and the development of the regions in the two parts of ireland that have suffered most from the instability of recent years.
in writing. the country, which was once known as the celtic tiger and which had enjoyed remarkable growth rates, has been suffering in recent years from the impact of the crisis and the effects of globalisation. these have reached the irish glass sector, where almost 600 workers are now in a position to claim assistance. i'm in favor of the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. - having regard to the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), i am in favour of granting aid to workers made redundant by waterford crystal in ireland. this is an aid of more than eur 2.5 million which will be crucial to promote the upgrading of the skills of the people concerned, the vast majority of whom are over 45 years old. i would stress, however, the glaring situation of differentiation and inequality created within the framework of the egf, in the face of the repeated practice of member states not making use of the funds made available, clearly harming workers who in these countries fall into unemployment, as has happened in portugal due to the continuous increase in bankruptcies and unemployment rates.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and it is now appropriate to provide this aid to ireland, in particular to companies in the glass and crystal manufacturing sector. hence my vote.
in writing. − the multiplicity of sectors and companies affected by the crisis and also by globalisation make it inevitable to ask whether the present european economic model will be viable and sustainable. if the granting of aid to workers made redundant is not open to criticism, the same cannot be said of the perpetuation of a state of affairs which tends to multiply difficult situations such as those experienced by the wood and cork workers of castilla-la mancha. in addition to the occasional help, the european union and its member states will have to be able to promote an economic environment free of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, friendly to entrepreneurs, which rewards risk and innovation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting this support under the european globalisation adjustment fund, in recognition of the extremely negative impact of the closure of 36 timber industries in the span of nine months in the spanish region of castilla-la mancha, throwing 585 people out of work. the situation is all the more serious in a region suffering from demographic desertification and with a workforce almost entirely of minimum education. i therefore call for special attention to be paid to the negative effects of the current economic crisis on the rural areas.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be given to the community of castilla-la mancha in spain following the dismissal of 585 workers in 36 companies in the wood and cork industries and their works, except furniture, manufacture of spartan articles and basketry. hence my vote.
in writing. − the european commission is calling for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide technical assistance that is appropriate and appropriate to the many requests from the various countries which are experiencing an increase in the number of unemployed workers as a result of the international economic and financial crisis and globalisation which is affecting the solvency of many companies. the unanimous vote in committee illustrates the consensual way in which this request is understood by members who deal more closely with this issue and i believe it deserves the same consideration by the house.
in writing. - recognising the importance of the european globalisation adjustment fund in re-skilling the workforce and in mitigating the socio-economic impacts of the global crisis, i voted in favour of this resolution, which favours better implementation of the aid and mechanisms provided for targeted support for displaced workers. in addition to the strengthening of the means to monitor, audit and evaluate better the implementation of the approved support plans, i would stress the concern and the effort to promote initiatives that could lead to a greater and more widespread use of egf funds by the member states, particularly portugal.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to help them to regain access to a new job in the future. in this respect, it is also necessary to assess the proper functioning of this aid mechanism. the commission therefore requests that the egf be mobilised in order to cover the administrative costs associated with the activities for the preparation of the mid-term evaluation of the functioning of the egf, the implementation studies, the reintegration of workers into the labour market, the development of networks between the services of the member states responsible for the egf and the exchange of good practices, as well as the setting up and updating of the website.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is key to supporting the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the european institutions have played an important role in supporting the economic recovery of the member states most in need. i would like to ask the european union institutions once again to show solidarity in order to ensure that the rules are implemented quickly and flexibly, on the basis of simplified procedures, and that they are quickly adapted to the needs of workers who are most affected by the current economic downturn.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, advocating a concerted and accessible approach to interregional exchange of best practice, with the aim of enabling cohesion policy actors to draw on the experience of others. i believe that the understanding of project management issues by the actors involved in the implementation of cohesion policy is a key factor in improving and facilitating governance. member states should decentralise the implementation of cohesion policy to allow for a smooth functioning of the multi-level governance system, respecting the principle of partnership and the principle of subsidiarity. i welcome the creation of an audit reference manual and the simplification, in particular as regards eligibility, financial engineering and simplification of financial reporting. i would point out the obstacles faced by potential applicants in using the structural funds, namely: high bureaucratic burdens, too many complex regulations, lack of transparency in decision-making processes and co-financing rules and delays in payments. to remove these obstacles, long-term criteria should be defined for projects co-financed through the structural funds and special measures and new qualitative indicators should be developed for regions with specific geographical characteristics, such as the outermost regions.
in writing. − transparency on how structural funds are spent, in particular through ex post publicity of the beneficiaries, the names of operations and the amount of public funding allocated to operations, is key to the underlying debate on how to spend european public money. however, the definition of 'beneficiaries' and the amount of public funding paid to the beneficiary to be published (amounts allocated or amounts actually paid) is not clear. i welcome the recommendations in this report that they contribute to a culture of mutual trust involving all stakeholders which will contribute to a better use of european funds.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the measures proposed in this report because i believe that transparency must be a key condition for achieving the general objectives of all policies, and even more so of cohesion policies. the variability in the presentation and conditions of access to data resulting from the apparent differences between member states and managing authorities in the interpretation of the minimum requirements of the european transparency initiative does not allow for a full comparison at eu level, and i therefore welcome the introduction of clearer rules regarding the disclosure of information on beneficiaries of funds under shared management. reduced red tape, simplified procedures for obtaining funds and greater control over financial management are positive steps. i also welcome the proposal for bilingualism as regards the official dissemination by the member states of public information on the programming process for the funds. finally, i believe that the commission should set an example by adopting practices which promote transparency. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the transparency of regional policy and its financing to ensure greater control over the way public funds are used. in addition to the current minimum requirements, it is urgent to ensure that the lists of beneficiaries of the structural funds published on the commission's website include more detailed information for greater transparency, such as location information, summaries of approved projects, types of support and a description of the project partners.
in writing. − regional policy and the european union's cohesion funds are fundamental to the principle of solidarity between member states. it is essential that the money allocated to them is used efficiently and in a targeted manner, contributing to the development of the areas for which it is intended. greater responsibility on the part of the member states, transparency in the use of these funds and penalties for mismanagement will lead to a further reduction of imbalances in the european union.
in writing. - given the size and regional diversity of europe and the importance of the credibility of the european institutions, i voted in favour because i believe that the sharing of public information and the homogeneity of procedures are crucial to ensure the necessary transparency in the implementation and financing of regional policies, with a view to economic and social cohesion and the strengthening of a fairer and more equitable europe. i would also stress that ensuring compliance with common rules and the publication of objective information on public investments should not entail an increase in bureaucracy. i believe that it is important to reduce it in order to improve the transparency and effectiveness of european policies.
in writing. − transparency in the use of eu funds, as well as public information of beneficiaries of eu funds, is essential for the european transparency initiative (eiti). such disclosure allows us to gauge how public money is used, which is essential for the good health of democracy and for the good management of ever-limited resources. however, at this time of crisis, other mechanisms are needed to allow for even greater transparency, in particular the prior information by the commission of decisions concerning the financing of major projects. it is therefore essential to continue to develop all available mechanisms leading to ever greater transparency with regard to all beneficiaries of european union funds. hence my vote.
in writing. − this report calls into question the transparency of the transversal guiding principle in the programming and decision-making process of cohesion policy and makes a number of technical and administrative proposals which are useful for greater effectiveness in the development of regional policy. the document, which i voted in favour of, addresses not only the issues of the wide dissemination of data on beneficiaries and the necessary reduction of administrative burdens and the speeding up of procedures, but also the issue of transparency in the partnership between the regions, the member states and the european union. on the basis of this concern, a reference is made, on the basis of an amendment which i have signed, to the need for more targeted, regular and timely information to be provided to the partner organisations, in particular through more technical assistance and training measures, which is undoubtedly useful for partners in the outermost regions of the union, such as the outermost regions.
in writing. - the peace process in northern ireland is a successful example which has earned, and should continue to earn, the support of the european institutions. as in european integration, so in post-conflict situations such as this, the path to stability will be made by establishing de facto solidarities that facilitate and increase cross-border and inter-community relations. i hope that other parts of the european union, which are plagued by the phenomena of secessionist terrorism, will be able to analyse the irish experience and learn from it lessons that will enable them to eradicate violence and build societies that everyone can call their own, with respect for the law, traditions and human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of extending the international fund for ireland, as i believe it is important to stress the european union's mission of peace between peoples and communities as a determining factor for economic and social development, as well as for the enhancement of human dignity and the quality of life of citizens. this can be seen in the case of ireland. the european union must continue to play a decisive role in maintaining peace and in eliminating regional, ethnic and cultural tensions, thus promoting conditions for social and economic progress.
in writing. - since its inception in 1986, the international fund for ireland has been helping to promote economic and social progress and to encourage contacts, dialogue and reconciliation between nationalists and unionists throughout ireland. the continuation of the peace process developing in ireland needs to continue to be supported by the eu through contributions to the international fund for ireland, support which has been available since 1989. the strengthening of this support will serve to strengthen solidarity between member states and their peoples. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to the creation of a more competitive european rail freight network. the change in the transport sector over the last decades and the increasing opening up of national rail markets (creating serious non-compliance problems) make it necessary to implement these measures which will contribute to the creation of an efficient distribution network between eu member states.
in writing. − in recent decades the railway market share in freight transport has been steadily declining, accounting for only 10% of freight transport in 2005. in an attempt to meet this challenge, the commission promoted the idea of working better on the issue by proposing in december 2008 a regulation on a european rail network for competitive freight transport. in april 2009, the european parliament adopted its first reading on the proposal, giving its support to the commission. the council also reached political agreement on this regulation, although it made some amendments. without questioning the importance of rail freight transport and the need for european coordination of this transport by supporting the creation of so-called freight corridors, the truth is that, in the current economic and financial context of the eu countries, the creation of an integrated freight transport system necessarily implies a very high level of investment by the states, which we cannot guarantee that they will be able to promote and/or ensure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − a european rail network for competitive freight transport is essential for the eu to achieve the objectives set out in the european union strategy for jobs and growth. the creation of rail corridors that allow a rapid and efficient connection from one national network to another will therefore improve the conditions for using the infrastructure. the adoption of this regulation is essential to make rail freight transport more competitive than currently used, thus bringing not only economic but also environmental benefits, as rail transport is environmentally friendly. hence my vote.
in writing. - although freight transport has been in decline for several years, it remains the safest and most efficient alternative to road transport, among others. this report proposes to try to increase the market share of rail by creating corridors between at least two member states so that goods can move quickly. i have read it and i do not believe that the creation of these corridors will give priority to goods rather than passenger transport, and i do not therefore believe that there is any difference in treatment between the two types of rail traffic. the one-stop-shop may be of strategic coordination importance, since it will be the place where the management of the track orders will take place. the council's position has reduced it to an information desk, but my view is contrary to that of the rapporteur, who considers it to be essential to achieving the desired flow of goods. this network of corridors will allow for better synchronisation of european rail services, create interfaces between the different modes of transport and provide a new impetus for sectoral investment, and therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this proposal to adapt the rules of procedure of the european parliament to the treaty of lisbon. more powers for the european parliament must also mean more responsibility! the lisbon treaty is essential, since the european union needs to combine enlargement with deepening. and with this treaty it has done so in a balanced, credible and fair way, improving the coherence, legitimacy, democratic nature, effectiveness and transparency of the decision-making process, clarifying the division of powers between the union and the member states, and contributing to a more efficient inter- and intra-institutional relations within the union. the compromise amendments reached with this adaptation of the rules of procedure to the treaty of lisbon are largely the result of the epp's efforts to clarify and simplify the decision-making process of this parliament and its relationship with national parliaments.
in writing. − the large production of legislation by the european institutions and the participatory method in which this production takes place, the profusion of documentation which they repeatedly incur and the fact that the hierarchies between sources and legal rules are not always clear make it essential for the european parliament to mitigate these risks by making an effort to bring its statute into line with the recent treaty of lisbon. i believe that this was necessary in the interests of clarity of procedure and legal certainty.
in writing. - the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon requires the european parliament to adapt to the new conditions of functioning and sharing of responsibilities in decision-making processes. i would stress the impact of the strengthening of the european parliament's powers, the new composition of the national representations and the introduction of a closer relationship with the national parliaments. i support the amendments to the rules of procedure now proposed, considering also the simplification and clear definition of the regulatory procedures to improve the capacity to respond to the needs of citizens, institutions and member states, while ensuring conditions for the efficient implementation of european policies.
in writing. - the adoption of the treaty of lisbon has brought new responsibilities to the european parliament, which requires the adaptation of its rules of procedure to the new rules. this regulation thus adapts the rules of procedure of the european parliament to the new challenges posed by the treaty of lisbon. hence my vote.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. this is a necessary adaptation of the rules of procedure of the european parliament after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. after a first vote at the november part-session, which secured the necessary amendments directly related to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the other amendments were postponed for an extended period of reflection. the ppe, the group to which the psd belongs, signed several compromise amendments, notably concerning the question period to the president of the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the president of the eurogroup, the implementation of the statute for members, the revision of the treaties and delegated acts. i would like to stress, however, the amendments concerning interparliamentary cooperation, the european parliament's relationship with national parliaments in the course of the legislative process and the composition of the european parliament's delegation to cosac, three subjects to which i had to devote special attention as vice-president of the european people's party with responsibility for relations with national parliaments.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on the necessary adjustment of its rules of procedure following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. after the vote at the november partsession, the vote on the other amendments not directly related to the entry into force of the treaty was postponed until this part-session. twelve compromise amendments were signed with the group of the european people's party, to which i belong, on a number of subjects: the question period to the president of the commission and the high representative of the union, written questions to the council and the commission, regular interparliamentary cooperation, the implementation of the statute for members, the delegation to cosac, the revision of the treaties and the delegation of legislative power. i am voting in favour of the other amendments to the document, including the introduction of a provision on subsidiarity and proportionality in the examination of legislative acts and on the relationship between the european parliament and national parliaments in the course of the legislative process.
in writing. − one of the key objectives for 2011 will be to maintain, promote and achieve funding for research and technological development in the union by adequately funding the framework programme, thus contributing to the europe 2020 strategy. the increase in the number of applications for funding has increased in proportion to the increase in the control mechanisms in an attempt to ensure the correct use of community funds. internal bureaucracy and the creation of more administrative rules and procedures reduce trust in the process. it is particularly difficult for smaller organisations - such as smes, high-tech start-ups, smaller institutes, universities and research centres - to cope with such complexity. i call for a simplification of access to research funding. a culture of mutual trust involving all stakeholders needs to be developed. this will boost research and innovation, making europe a more attractive place to live and work.
in writing. - the role of the european parliament in the negotiation of the community budget is strengthened by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in the current economic, financial and social crisis, it is essential to allocate funds to stimulate growth and competitiveness in the union. in this context, it is important that the union's solidarity funds be strengthened, assuming effective use by governments, in order to mitigate the impact of this crisis in the most disadvantaged regions.
in writing. − i would remind you that the 2011 budgetary procedure is the first of its kind since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and that its single reading requires greater cooperation and coordination with the other branch of the budgetary authority. i would stress the concern and the effort to ensure adequate funding for the european union's strategic development priorities, particularly in the areas of youth and innovation, alongside energy efficiency, combating climate change, promoting employment and gender equality. i also believe that it is essential to ensure the viability of mechanisms which guarantee the sustainability of the agricultural sector. i would like to make a special reference to the dairy sector. in the current context of crisis and of severe pressure on the public finances of the member states, i stress the need to ensure the budgetary sustainability of the european union with a view to pursuing the central objective of social and economic cohesion. however, i consider it important that the draft budget for 2011 already reflects the financial implications of the flagship initiatives of the eu 2020 strategy, such as 'innovation union', 'youth on the move', 'a resource efficient europe', 'new skills and jobs' and 'an industrial policy for the age of globalisation'.
in writing. - we voted against this report on the draft budget for the financial year 2011 because it does not correspond in the least to the needs of the european union's financing today, where the creation of the eurozone has exacerbated social and territorial inequalities, without taking due account of the principle of economic and social cohesion. in a situation of crisis, the need is even more acute for another community budget which would at least double the amount of money to allocate at least half of this budget (calculated on the basis of 2% of community gnp) to investments in the productive sector and to support the social functions of the states, in order to create more jobs with rights, to combat poverty and to reduce territorial inequalities in order to promote economic and social cohesion. on the other hand, it is also essential to increase the rates of community co-financing for the countries with weaker economies, in particular for programmes in the social field and productive investment. finally, the amounts allocated to the military area must be substantially reduced and the central objectives of the budget must be changed in order to achieve balanced development and social progress.
in writing. − the draft budget for 2011 will be the first since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and its preparation requires greater cooperation and coordination between all parties involved in its negotiation in order to reach an agreement on all expenditure during the merger process. the trialogue to be held in july should be unequivocal in paving the way, so that points where there should be greater consensus are identified in advance. the main points to be considered will be the budgetary implications of the european stabilisation mechanism, the eu 2020 strategy and youth-related programmes.
in writing. − in this parliament's response to the 2011 draft budget proposed by the european commission, i support my group's view that it is impossible to clearly define the implications of the draft budget for the flagship initiatives of the strategy and that more and better information is needed. i also welcome the inclusion of the youth programme as one of the priorities for next year in the commission's draft, but i regret that the increase in appropriations for this area was symbolic, when more of these initiatives should be expected. since i consider it unacceptable that the 2011 budget for posei should be less than in 2010, especially at a time when the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and colombia and peru will have serious repercussions on the production of bananas, sugar and rum in the outermost regions, i supported an amendment with the members of the outermost regions, which also calls on the commission to promote, as soon as possible, a study of the impact of this situation in these regions.
in writing. - stronger regulation of derivatives markets should take account of the special situation of firms which must continue to hedge their financial and operational risks on favourable terms and in an appropriate way with the help of derivatives. non-financial corporations use these instruments to hedge currency, interest and commodity risks. this non-speculative protection contributes to the creation of stability and growth in employment and investment. however, the proposed regulatory measures should not lead to a manifest deterioration in the risk coverage of companies. i call for derogations and lower capital requirements to be allowed, especially for smes, in the case of bilateral derivatives.
in writing. - the derivatives market, as the economic, financial and social crisis has shown, needs effective regulation to make the trading of these financial instruments more transparent. these products should be subject to more effective supervision so that their transaction does not have adverse effects on the market. on the other hand, because of the variety of derivatives and the necessary protection of investors, i support stricter information rules.
in writing. − i welcome the mobilisation of the european institutions to ensure the best efficiency, security and soundness of derivatives markets, recognising their importance for the sustainability of economic development and the need to ensure the regulation and verification of the procedures and transactions linked to the transaction or trading of these financial instruments. in view of the size of the derivatives market and its impact on the global economy as evidenced by the current economic and financial crisis and the exponential increase in the risk component in the global market, i consider it essential to ensure transparency, for which not only the effectiveness of market supervision is essential, but also clear, concise and complete information standards. credit default swaps of sovereign issuers used by financial speculators have led to unjustified levels of various national spreads. this highlights the need for market transparency and stronger european regulation in relation to the trading of credit default swaps, particularly those linked to sovereign debt. future legislation is expected to bring not only transparency to derivatives markets but also robust regulation. i would stress that the costs of future market infrastructures should be borne by market participants and not by taxpayers.
in writing. - instead of proposing the end of the derivatives market, the majority of the european parliament simply defended the prohibition of speculative trading in credit default swaps (cds) of sovereign debt, urging the commission to consider risk ceilings for derivatives, particularly cds, and to agree on them with international partners. the commission is expected to present its proposal on derivatives markets in september, but the ep will legislate on the subject on an equal footing with the council. all this waiting is regrettable when one sees the sharp rise in the implicit interest rates of the bonds of sovereign issuers in some euro zone countries to unsustainable levels, knowing the negative role that credit default swaps have played in the whole process. speculative bonds based on sovereign debt cannot be allowed any longer. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we therefore support the positive proposals, but we are against the backward position and the enormous delay in the regulation of the capital market.
in writing. − derivatives have historically played an important role in the transfer of risk in the economy. however, the lack of transparency and regulation of the derivatives market had a very pernicious effect on the financial crisis. one of the instruments that has affected european economies the most and led to the rise in sovereign debt interest rates was the cds (credit default swaps). this regulation advocates the prohibition of speculative trading in this instrument, as it may lead to distortions of sovereign debt markets. it is of paramount importance to distinguish between derivative products used as a risk management tool to hedge a real underlying risk to which the entity is exposed and derivatives used solely for speculative purposes. hence my vote.
in writing. - i welcome the broad lines of the communication presented by the commission. the development of new applications and the very functioning of the 'internet of things', as well as the strong impact it will have on the daily lives and habits of european citizens, will be closely linked to the trust that european consumers place in the system. it is essential to ensure a regulatory and legal framework that protects the european consumer and promotes public and private investment in the iot sector. the 'internet of things' is a major economic opportunity, as it will allow the optimisation of production processes and energy consumption, as well as the creation of new jobs and new services for an increasing number of european citizens and businesses. if the european union is to become a true leader in this market, it must take a proactive approach in this area, stimulating research and pilot projects.
in writing. − the rapid and uninterrupted growth of the internet means that at present some 1.5 billion people are connected via computers and mobile devices. the next step is leading to a gradual transformation of a network of interconnected computers into a network of interconnected objects - the internet of things - from books to cars, from household appliances to food (e.g. a refrigerator programmed to recognise expired or nearly expired products). such technological innovations can help to meet the diverse expectations of society and citizens, and act as a catalyst for growth and innovation, bringing benefits in terms of the economy and the well-being of the population. however, it needs to be regulated in a precise and comprehensive way to enable the internet of things to meet the challenges of trust, acceptance and security. it is essential to ensure full respect for privacy and the protection of personal data and to put in place appropriate measures to protect data against possible misuse and other risks associated with personal data. i therefore support this proactive approach, without forgetting that the internet of things is essentially an internet of things for people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the badia i cutchet report for supporting the creation of an 'internet of things'. i believe that new information technologies have significant benefits for our society, but it is important to ensure that any potential impacts on health and the environment, as well as aspects relating to the protection of privacy, are taken into account.
in writing. − the internet has become part of the daily lives of millions of people and today plays an irreplaceable role as a means of communication and a vehicle for the transmission of information and knowledge. the exponential growth of content hosted on the internet makes it a tool of multiple and growing uses and, at the same time, the scene of a new type of crime that takes advantage of the speed and dematerialization of information flows and the massive volume of personal data made available by network users. i share the concerns expressed in the resolution about the need to address politically motivated restrictions on internet access and to allow for safer use of the internet by children and adolescents. i share the view that the day-to-day use and management of the network should be left to the private sector, but i believe that the states cannot avoid having a present and active regulatory role, aimed above all at preventing abuses and violations of citizens' rights.
in writing. − the impact of new technologies on people's safety and quality of life has become unavoidable, highlighting the simultaneous benefits and risks they bring. the internet of things is a new set of added value for human life, but this does not prevent the recognition of any risks inherent in a tool with great potential. i would stress the need to encourage research and the launching of pilot projects, and to take advantage of the opportunities that are now arising, particularly in optimising energy savings, in production processes, in creating new jobs and new challenges. however, it is crucial that the union has a common framework of reference to frame or strengthen the provisions on system governance, confidentiality, information security, ethical management, privacy, collection and storage of personal data and consumer information. the rapid evolution of the internet of things requires a government for the internet of things that is secure, transparent and multilateral. i therefore share the commission's concern with regard to the security, protection of personal data and privacy of citizens, as well as the governance of the internet of things, for reasons of respect for privacy and protection of personal data.
in writing. the internet of things is a project that started in 1999 in the united states. it is gaining increasing popularity and is expected to revolutionize person-thing-thing interaction over the next ten to fifteen years through the increasing use of rfid (radio frequency identification) technology. the development of the internet of things, with all the innovations and positives it can bring to our daily lives, still has a wide margin of uncertainty, both conceptually and technically, which is worthy of some concern. the technology behind this step is called rfid, a tag, which is an electronic component consisting of a chip and an antenna. the chip, which is only a few millimeters wide, can hold, receive and transmit information without wired connections, which raises various problems related to ownership, management, privacy, etc. the rapporteur, mr van den broek, has already made a number of suggestions for improving the quality of the information provided by the commission. however, we have serious doubts about the management of this data. we are on a somewhat unclear path, which is why we abstained from voting.
in writing. − the role of so-called information and communication technologies (ict) in promoting social development, economic growth, research and innovation and creativity in european public and private bodies has been important. the rapid evolution of the internet in recent years has led to new concerns and the need for the european union to have a common framework of reference to frame and strengthen existing provisions on governance of the system, in particular with regard to confidentiality, information security, ethics management, privacy, collection and storage of personal data and consumer information. it is therefore very important that the governance of the internet of things is concerned with respecting the security, data protection and privacy of those who use it, as this is the only way to bring benefits to eu citizens. hence my vote.
in writing. − the internet is a 'global public good' whose unilateral management and control by a single government has been the subject of numerous criticisms. the european union should develop a strategy that reflects a consensus view of the fundamental aspects of internet governance and that can be strongly defended in international forums and in its bilateral relations with the united states. i support the european commission's favourable position towards the current management model based on private sector leadership. i also call for the participation of developing countries to be improved, in particular by financing their participation.
in writing. − the internet has had a huge impact on society and citizens' lives over the last twenty years. the eu is a good example of this, as although it represents just over 7% of the world's population, it has almost 19% of the world's internet users. internet governance has been at the forefront of public policy priorities, seeking to ensure that citizens can benefit fully from the potential of the internet, while seeking to find the best solutions to tackle the problem of inappropriate or illegal content, as well as to adequately protect consumers and try to resolve issues of jurisdiction in a global online world. i fully agree that the internet is a global public good, which should always defend and respect the public interest. it is essential that the eu develops a strategy on the key aspects of internet governance and i support the spanish presidency's initiative to draft a 'european charter of the rights of internet users'. it is important to reform icann internally to give it a more representative structure, with more control from the international community, with more accountability and transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on internet governance, which involves sensitive issues such as the protection and guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms, access to and use of the internet and cybercrime. the spanish presidency's proposals for a european charter of the rights of internet users and for the recognition of a fifth fundamental freedom (freedom of access to the network) could provide the eu with more effective instruments to ensure greater protection of security-related aspects and pluralistic and non-discriminatory access to the network.
in writing. - the public role of the internet and the way it influences not only everyday life but also mass movements, political initiatives and communication strategies is now undeniable. it is legitimate to say that the internet has an irreplaceable public role and that this cannot be neglected by the member states of the european union, which must demand greater access and participation in the governance of the internet without thereby calling into question the leading role of the private sector in the daily use and management of the network, which has proved essential for its vitality and growth. the role of states is becoming more relevant, as are issues relating to cybercrime and the protection of users' security and privacy, as well as citizens' freedom of access and expression via the internet.
in writing. − given the increasingly dominant role of the internet in the daily lives of citizens and institutions and even in the governance of different countries, as well as its impact on economic, cultural, social and human development, internet governance is assumed as a matter of paramount importance in the global world. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european union should ensure that the conditions are right for active intervention in this area, in order to defend the public good and its values and principles. in this context, i voted in favour of this report, stressing the importance of widening the representation of global diversity in the entities that currently control the internet market, such as the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann) and the internet assigned numbers authority (iana).
in writing. - this report takes as a starting point the important role of the internet, which has become an indispensable instrument for promoting democratic initiatives, political debate, digital literacy and the dissemination of knowledge. access to the internet simultaneously guarantees and depends on the exercise of a number of fundamental rights, including respect for privacy, data protection, freedom of expression and association, freedom of the press, political expression and participation, non-discrimination, education and cultural and linguistic diversity. it therefore stresses that the institutions and stakeholders at all levels have a general responsibility to ensure that everyone can exercise their right to participate in the information society. it also addresses the threats that cybercrime is posing to societies that use ict, noting the increase in incitement to terrorist attacks, hate crimes and child pornography, putting people, including children, at risk, and states that 'the role of public actors in shaping a global strategy needs to be strengthened'. the commission is also concerned about the unrepresentative structure of the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann) and the limited scrutiny that the international community, including the eu, exercises over the functioning of icann.
in writing. - the internet is now a global instrument and its management should therefore be guided by the common interest. the internet is today one of the main means of spreading democratic values in the world, and is an indispensable instrument in promoting all kinds of initiatives, political debate and the dissemination of knowledge. the development of the internet is therefore essential if it is to be made more equitable for everyone in the eu. it is also essential that it is safe for all its users, in particular for children who are less able to defend themselves against the potential dangers of its use. we must therefore prevent the governance of the internet from being dominated by any single entity or group of entities, so that it maintains its status as a global public good. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, but i would point out that access to innovation in certain regions, particularly the outermost regions, is subject to certain conditions. in order to promote better use of the potential of these regions in areas such as research or innovation, account should be taken of the difficulties linked to the lack of critical mass. the unique geographical and climatic characteristics of the octs provide specific advantages for the development of certain actions in the fields of biodiversity, marine resources, climate change, renewable energy and water, environment, natural resources, health and new technologies. in the field of natural resources and biodiversity in particular, the outermost regions provide european research with privileged access to tropical ecosystems with unique biodiversity and agriculture, which allow research in the context of the european research area as natural laboratories. they are also places for experimentation. despite the potential of many regions and all efforts, many regions continue to have more difficulty than others in improving the factors that contribute to competition, growth and employment, as set out in the lisbon strategy, especially in the context of r & d & i.
in writing. − an innovation policy must address the major societal challenges we face, bringing together all relevant actors. investment in knowledge and reforms to promote technological progress, research, innovation, education and training is essential to promote prosperity, growth and employment in the medium to long term. the fight against new challenges requires innovative initiatives in the application of new technologies but also requires innovative initiatives in the social field, at the level of the organization. i call for efforts to be made to move from technological innovation to social innovation, public service innovation and regional innovation.
in writing. the importance of knowledge and innovation is gaining prominence in the political agenda and jargon, and few today dare to question the importance of investing in this field and the need to link knowledge, innovation, enterprises and employment. the risk of unanimity around the concept is, however, that it will be emptied, as has happened with other trends such as the environment or the sustainability of the economy or support for entrepreneurship. these themes fill pages of manifestos and election programmes and almost always end up losing their distinctive character, being mere statements of fact. in this respect, and despite the government's serious efforts in some areas, i cannot help but point out the negative aspects of the technological populism from which the prime minister of portugal seems to suffer. it would be better if he paid more attention to the content and less to the form in which he proclaims the improvement of working conditions and scientific production and if he remembered that competitive effort requires ambition but realism.
in writing. - the decisive role of innovation in the success and sustainability of economic and social development and the success of european integration is now widely accepted. the importance of innovation, which is necessarily linked to research and education and never separated from them, is becoming even more evident in the face of the increasingly rapid pace of global and human evolution. in this sense, i support this report for the review of community innovation policy, stressing the urgent need for the european union to coordinate efforts to boost resources in this area. i would also stress the importance of encouraging private initiative and of a comprehensive, cross-cutting strategy in the priority implementation of european innovation policy.
in writing. - we agree with several aspects of this report, although its wording does not always focus on the most important issues. for example, we agree that innovation is one of the elements, not the element, in overcoming the challenges that are currently being posed, both at the global social and environmental level and at other levels equally important to society. but the priority given to each of the areas in the europe 2020 strategy, such as entrepreneurship, competitiveness, climate change, employment, demographic change and an inclusive society, leaves the documentation and analysis of the needs for innovation in a changing world far behind what would be needed to promote genuine economic and social cohesion, productivity growth, job creation in the member states and their wage appreciation, which we consider to be fundamental. that is why we abstained. in its communication of 2 september 2009 entitled 'review of community innovation policy in a changing world', the european commission outlined the developments in eu innovation policy since 2005. it is now expected to take up and implement some aspects of the proposed innovation action plan which is due to be presented shortly.
in writing. − innovation, together with research and training, is one of the most important aspects of the development of knowledge in the eu. a community innovation policy is of great relevance to achieving the objectives outlined in the eu 2020 strategy. however, the capacity for innovation, particularly in enterprises, lacks financial resources which are not easily available to enterprises, especially smes, at the moment. the adoption of this regulation is thus an important step towards supporting entrepreneurs as the driving force of innovation in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the eradication of poverty to be of the utmost importance. since poverty eradication is the main objective set by the lisbon treaty for eu cooperation and development policy and since it is a moral duty whose long-term usefulness to the eu's interests is vital, i consider it crucial that this objective be a priority in our foreign policy. it is also important to stress that, despite the deep economic crisis in europe and the world, we cannot and must not neglect external aid, which is essential for the creation of a more just and united world. considering that the objectives set out at the 2000 millennium summit, where we committed to improve our action on poverty reduction, are still far from being achieved, and that the year 2015 - the target for achieving those objectives - is approaching by leaps and bounds, it is of the utmost urgency to examine distinct factors aimed at maximising the outcomes of the millennium development goals. i would like to take this opportunity to express my support for this project.
in writing. - i welcome the role that europe has played as the world's largest contributor to development aid. development aid has helped to alleviate poverty for millions of people in the developing world. extreme poverty has fallen from 1.8 billion to 1.4 billion people. nearly 90 percent of poor children are in school today. great strides have been made in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis, and child mortality is falling by the rocks. however, the recent food and fuel crises and the global economic downturn have reversed much of the progress made over the past decade. rich countries are responsible for the current financial, economic and climate crises, but developing countries are the most affected by global warming, and it is therefore essential to step up all measures to combat climate change, such as the transfer of appropriate technologies. i call for additional funds to be allocated to developing countries and for these to be sustainable in the medium and long term, from the private sector, the carbon market and the public sector of industrialised countries and economically more advanced developing countries.
in writing. − the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) plays a key role in development policy. with only a few months to go until the un summit, despite significant progress on some of the mdgs, the truth is that we are still far from where we want to be. it takes more: member states must meet their commitments on oda, new financing mechanisms need to be explored (which do not translate into more taxes in this time of crisis), and above all, policy coherence for development is essential (following the resolution adopted in may this year on the coherence of eu policies in a development perspective and 'the concept of public aid for more development'). i welcome the fact that the ep has set as priority mdg targets health, education, the most vulnerable groups and poverty eradication through concrete measures in trade, agriculture and fisheries policies; and also with the demand for a new global governance that gives more voice to developing countries and promotes democracy, peace, the rule of law in developing countries. i am, however, against abortion being considered as a means of contraception.
in writing. - "if you're going to san francisco, be sure to wear some flowers in your hair, if you're going to san francisco, you're gonna meet some gentle people there" proclaimed scott mackenzie! but that is not the world, nor can this message be applied to the complex economic and social reality of today's world! that is why i voted against this report, without, of course, calling into question the goodness of its aims! "imagine there's no countries, it isn't hard to do, nothing to kill or die for, and no religion too. imagine all the people living life in peace". but it was the same john lennon who added "you may say i'm a dreamer"... unfortunately, this is not the reality! but it is up to us to make the world a fairer and safer place, where everyone can live with at least a modicum of dignity. the proposals in this report are intended to pursue multiple objectives, without focusing on or defining effective priorities, 'firing' in all directions, which does not make them feasible. finally, they seem to me to be too state-centred and too centralised in the central public administrations. i disagree with this philosophy. on the contrary, i believe that the mdgs should be based on community-based projects (e.g. millennium villages), with strong involvement of all community actors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cashman report because we still have a long way to go to achieve the millennium development goals. it is necessary to strengthen existing measures in order to achieve them by 2015, in particular by fulfilling the responsibilities assumed by member states in relation to aid to developing countries. i welcome the adoption of paragraph 42 which calls on the member states and the commission to reverse the worrying decline in funding for sexual and reproductive health and rights in developing countries and to support policies on voluntary family planning, safe abortion, treatment of sexually transmitted infections and the provision of reproductive health facilities such as life-saving medicines and contraceptives, including condoms.
in writing. − the eradication of poverty and the reduction of the gap between rich and poor are important objectives to which all governments should devote attention and resources. the un adopted them at the 2000 millennium summit, and the european union, as the largest donor, has an important stake in the outcome of this collective effort. despite all the efforts of developed countries, many of which are facing crises that could undermine their commitment, the responsibility lies with recipient states who must be able to meet their responsibilities for good governance, the rule of law and essential civil liberties. i cannot but regret that the rapporteur, in the face of his good intentions, is trying to get the house to adopt a resolution which, in flagrant violation of the powers of the member states and third countries in these matters, advocates the promotion of abortion as a means of achieving the millennium goals. the tactic employed is not new, but the stealthy method is no less reprehensible.
in writing. − the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) has been a key commitment of the international community. europe is the leading international donor. this funding to developing countries has helped alleviate poverty, reduce mortality and improve the skills of millions of people. in fact, extreme poverty has declined, almost 90 percent of poor children are in school, and infant mortality is dropping exponentially. there is still much to be done, much support to be given so that the least developed countries achieve the mdgs of poverty eradication or access to education and health. europe, as a defender of fundamental rights, human rights, and with solidarity as a principle and as the world's largest contributor of development aid, must take a leading role in this matter and, in particular, in the next un review meeting to be held in september. i regret that this report has mixed noble aims with sensitive issues of individual conscience, such as abortion. the promotion of policies in support of abortion does not serve the achievement of the mdgs. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − the initial objective of the millennium declaration in 2000 was, inter alia, to 'reduce by half the percentage of people living in extreme poverty, provide safe drinking water and education for all, reverse the trend of the spread of hiv/aids'. we are far from achieving these objectives - which were already limited in themselves - a situation which the report acknowledges. the eu as a whole has been cutting its aid budgets, while its countries have recently spent billions of dollars to bail out their banks, passing the bill on to the people, leaving the economic and financial groups holding them untouched. the text contains, however, some contradictions which we consider important to point out, in particular when it criticises the liberalisation of trade and at the same time supports opening up to trade through the conclusion of the doha round in the wto and accepts the economic partnership agreements (epas) and free trade areas (ftas). trade liberalisation accentuates inequalities, creating greater exploitation of workers and natural resources, more poverty and social exclusion, and increases relations of dependency between countries. sacrificing development aid to these goals, as the eu and the us have done, means that the mdgs will not be achieved in 2015.
in writing. − the eu remains the main driver of the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) and the largest donor in the world, so it has to assume its responsibilities and play a leading role at the un high level meeting in september 2010. the achievement of the mdgs, including poverty eradication, will be very important in ending the suffering of millions of people around the world. it is important, however, to point out that, once again, covertly and under the pretext of fighting poverty, there is a desire to insert subtle references to the background of fracturing matters which are not taken up with the justified visibility, in particular in the abortion policy in developing countries.
mr president, we know that the economic and social situation in a significant part of the member states of the european union is a cause for concern. economic growth remains very weak and is insufficient to reduce unemployment and create the jobs the union needs. on the other hand, the measures being taken, in particular the austerity policies in the name of compliance with the stability pact and its criteria, are not only going against the need to create jobs and economic growth, but are also aggravating inequalities and accentuating poverty, and that is why, even as we are in the european year of combating poverty, we are seeing the situation of exclusion, poverty and unemployment growing. so i ask you, mr president, do you not think it is urgent to give priority in these macroeconomic policies to social sustainability, rather than continuing to insist on financial sustainability, putting at risk exactly social sustainability? do you not think it is time to review the sgp and its irrational criteria in order to give priority to employment and the fight for social inclusion?
on behalf of the ppe group. other i should like to begin by mentioning the good work that has been done in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, through the proposals put forward by its various members, and to stress the role played by the rapporteur, our colleague mr klinz, in ensuring that we have reached a good result. when we talk about prospects, we are obviously talking about the idea of advertising, of security in the markets and of better access to investment. that is why i have sometimes felt a certain conflict between the defence which is necessary in relation to consumers and the defence which is also necessary in relation to investors. a balance was achieved. the solutions were often not identical, but what is most important to stress at this final moment is that this review has paid attention to the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises, to the need to respect small investors in relation to the possibility of greater simplicity, greater clarity in exemptions and lower costs for companies, reducing what is often an excessive administrative burden. the council, the commission and parliament were often not in agreement, as is obvious in the trilogue. it is a positive aspect, which i would like to emphasize here, that a balanced position has been reached with regard to the future of market security at the level of the european union.
in its resolution on the budget for the current year, the european parliament approved the possibility of extending the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework to 2015-2016. we all know that member states, in their quest to control the deficit and reduce public debt, are cutting back on investment. the delay in implementing the community funds will therefore increase. however, these resources are crucial for social, economic and territorial cohesion. so are the commission and the council willing to extend the multiannual financial framework for the financial years 2015-2016 as parliament has done? the challenges posed by globalisation, population ageing and climate change must be met. with the implementation of the 20-20 strategy, i am sure we will be on the right track and defend jobs, quality of life and our social model. but how can the eu budget be increased to meet these investments? in 2009, the surplus corresponds to more than eur 2,2 billion. are the commission and the council prepared to allow this surplus money from the european union budget to be used to supplement the budget for the following year or to be used to create a fund to finance the priorities of the european union? how do you intend to deal with parliament in setting the priorities of the european union? do you support a clear hierarchy of union priorities so that decisions can be made in a transparent and consensual manner as to what is supported in a concrete way and with financial support, and what is supported from a strictly political point of view but without any budgetary consequences?
the report i am presenting is the result of collective work within the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which also included a hearing of women's organisations, experts and the participation of the european commission itself. to each and every one of you, my thanks. in our analysis of the roadmap for equality 2006-2010, we consider that some progress has been made, highlighting some fundamental aspects of equality between women and men, but in fact it has not had the political force necessary for its full implementation. particular attention was paid to the inequalities that persist in real life, such as the problem of difficulty in accessing employment with decent rights and wages, poverty, the maintenance of discrimination and stereotypes that contribute to perpetuating inequalities, including in access to training and professional promotion, in management and top positions, in economic and political life. this has also been compounded by the contradictions in community policies which are at the root of the existence of more than 85 million people in poverty, mostly women and children, as a result of unemployment, precarious work, low wages, pensions and pensions below the minimum subsistence income and difficulties in accessing quality public services. the current economic and social crisis has particularly serious consequences for women, exacerbating inequalities and discrimination. this is the case of the gender pay gap, which averages more than 17%, and of indirect discrimination, which tends to intensify when unemployment rises and affects women and young girls. even the jobs created in recent years, especially those for young people and women, have been mostly precarious and poorly paid, with no respect for fundamental rights, particularly in the area of maternity, which has also contributed to the low birth rate. the multiple discrimination against specific sectors of women, including older women, women with dependants, immigrant or minority women and women with disabilities, is particularly serious. in addition to high levels of poverty and unemployment, violence and discrimination have also contributed to the maintenance and even the increase of trafficking in women and children and prostitution in several countries of the european union, which require urgent responses. unfortunately, the gender perspective has not been adequately addressed in the proposals contained in the europe 2020 strategy presented by the commission. we therefore hope that this situation will be reviewed and that, in particular, the commissioner will try to answer these various questions when she draws up the equality strategy. but this position is not enough for one area of the european commission alone, much greater involvement is needed and, therefore, of the many measures outlined in the report, i would highlight four areas: at the institutional level, we propose that the new equality strategy be an agenda for action and a political commitment, building on the beijing platform for action and its progress, considering that the human rights of women and girls are an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights. we also call on the council to adopt the new commission proposal on the equality strategy, after consulting the european parliament, in order to give it greater political force and to ensure a new impetus to equality policy, and to provide it with community funds with a view to its effective implementation, when we consider it of the utmost importance to hold an annual tripartite meeting between the council, the commission and the european parliament on the progress of the strategy for gender equality in the european union, as well as an annual conference on gender equality in which women's organisations and trade union organisations from various member states, as well as of course european and national members of parliament, take part, each year paying particular attention to a pre-defined theme. i would also like to stress the need to integrate the gender perspective during the preparation of all proposals and, finally - and i will finish, mr president - to mention the insistence we have on the implementation and implementation of the measures already mentioned, whether it is the institute for equality, the observatory on violence or the full implementation of the existing directives, so that we can have the emancipation of women and their personal and professional fulfilment as the central objective of our action and also of the strategy itself. thank you very much. i am sure you will take these recommendations into account.
in the name of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, mr council representative, in a recent article in time entitled the new sheriffs of wall street, it is stated that in the united states women do not run wall street, nor are they to blame for this financial crisis, but in the current situation caused by the lack of regulation of the financial markets, they are now being called and appointed to leadership positions to clean up the mess caused by their male managers. this is an interesting point of view: men have caused the crisis and women will have to solve it. ironically, the world economy is facing the most severe recession since the great depression, with social consequences across the european union and with the most negative consequences for women, because they are more subject to precarious work, more exposed to redundancy and less covered by social security systems. in this context, there are well-founded fears that many member states may reduce funding for the social sector once again, affecting women, and especially women. it is not fair that the weakest should pay for the mistakes of the speculators. i would like to end by congratulating the spanish presidency on the priority it has given to combating gender-based violence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by saying that the report on the evaluation of the results of the 2006-2010 roadmap for equality between men and women, which is intended to influence the strategy on this matter for the future, could, in our opinion, have been more assertive and less controversial. in fact, the way in which various ethically sensitive issues, including women's sexual and reproductive health, were approached should have been different if the aim was really to achieve the widest possible consensus. i would like to stress that in times of normal economic growth, there is a great deal of concern about women's rights, particularly the disparity between the situation of men and women at work, in society and in the family, but these problems are being aggravated by the economic and social crisis we are experiencing. hence the need for a strengthened strategic commitment by the member states at the level of local and regional authorities and community institutions in relation to protection... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would also like to stress that, despite the fact that this debate took place at night, there was a very high level of participation by members, which is not usual in a debate at this time of night, and this is already a victory for the fight for women's rights and equality, all this participation that we have had here despite the unfavourable conditions for the debate. secondly, i should also like to say that the interventions that have been carried out here have generally led to concrete actions, to ideas, which must now be put into practice and we are all here to take up this challenge and to put it into practice. i believe that, finally, this increase in the political will to put the proposals, the words, the promises into practice is something that i want to take as a very positive aspect of tonight's debate and that this increased political will, both in all the policies of the european union and also of the member states and then in the specific actions to give greater visibility to women, so that equality also takes place in social progress, is a decisive contribution, so that for four years - as the commissioner said - we can take a positive balance sheet of the work we have done, parliament, the commission and the council. and so i conclude by saying that with this greater political will and attention to the dreams and aspirations of women, we can make an important contribution so that their emancipation and the realization, finally, of their dreams, can be achieved in a personal and professional way, in the way that each of them also achieves in her life, through work, through employment with rights, through participation in social life and, where appropriate, in economic and political life, and also through greater achievement in her family.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the bonus programme which will integrate the national research activities of the member states and the european commission in the area of the environment and the management of marine resources in the baltic sea. the bonus programme is an innovative model and an example for other forms of regional cooperation in the field of scientific research. like the baltic sea region, other regions, such as the south-west europe region, would benefit from concerted action by member states and the commission to address common challenges and support the sustainable development of their regions. i therefore urge the european parliament and the commission to consider the possibility of creating a joint research programme for the south-west region of europe, focusing on areas of great importance such as the sea, biodiversity, marine energy sources and with a view to the sustainable development of the european atlantic axis and its neighbouring regions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner malmström, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make four points of importance. first, the evaluation procedure. since their accession to the european union in 2007, romania and bulgaria have started working towards their full integration into the schengen area. in order for the council to take a decision to abolish internal borders, it is necessary that the evaluation procedures certify all the necessary conditions for the application of the relevant parts of the community acquis, namely data protection, the schengen information system, air, land and sea borders, police cooperation and visa policy. the evaluation procedures started with the data protection part. the aim is to verify that each of these member states is sufficiently prepared to implement all the data protection provisions. the results obtained are therefore a precondition for the evaluation process concerning the schengen information system, which implies the transfer of x data to these countries. the adoption of this decision is thus a first step towards the abolition of checks at the internal borders with bulgaria and romania. secondly, access to documents. the council forwarded this draft decision to the european parliament. however, no evaluation reports and follow-up reports were sent which would have allowed parliament to have access to all the information necessary to draw up a reasoned and reasoned opinion. it was only after parliament's insistence that the documents were handed over by the council. i am grateful to the romanian ambassador for his efforts in finding a solution to this situation by asking for the classified documents to be declassified and the term 'limited' to be adopted. this solution has made it possible to meet the timetable, but we will have the same problem when the european parliament is asked for its opinion on the other aspects of the schengen acquis. it is therefore necessary to conclude the agreement between the european parliament and the council on the transfer of confidential documents as soon as possible. thirdly, the evaluation of romania and bulgaria. in relation to bulgaria, shortcomings were identified in the adoption, implementation and application of council of europe recommendation 85/15 on the use of personal data in the police sector and weaknesses were found in the activity of the national data protection board. bulgaria has duly followed up these recommendations and the council concluded on 26 april that the necessary conditions in terms of data recovery had been met. in relation to romania, weaknesses were identified in relation to the adoption of two laws regulating the processing of personal data, as well as in relation to the facilities and resources of the national data protection authority, and the introduction of periodic assessments in relation to schengen data. romania has generally followed up the recommendations adequately and the recommendations still pending do not prevent romania from properly implementing all the necessary requirements with regard to data protection. the conditions are thus being fulfilled for us to give the green light to romania and bulgaria in the field of data protection. finally, mr president, there is the review of the schengen evaluation mechanism. i would like to take this opportunity to recall the need to establish as soon as possible a european evaluation mechanism that is simple and effective, efficient and transparent in the schengen evaluation area. parliament rejected the proposals put to it last october. i ask the commission to exercise its right of initiative as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. - mr president, four final points. firstly, to thank the kind references of my colleagues and the spectacular cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs and, secondly, to recall that there is a broad consensus in favour of these initiatives, but also to demand that the european parliament be informed within six months of the follow-up given to the recommendations which have not yet been fully implemented. thirdly, to remind you that this is only a first step. there are still other steps to be taken, as commissioner malmström has just rightly pointed out. fourthly and lastly, i would like to congratulate commissioner malmström on her assurances that she will present a legislative initiative on the evaluation system in the autumn. these two countries are being assessed solely and exclusively by the council. we need a european system of assessment - as the commissioner said - involving all the european institutions, the european commission, the council, but also the european parliament, but above all a european system of assessment which is not based on the two standards, that is, we cannot demand from the states outside schengen who want to enter a more demanding evaluation criterion than the one we apply to the states already in schengen. everyone, whether they want to enter or are already here, must prove that they are strictly complying with the schengen acquis and must prove that they are doing the best possible checks at the external borders. only in this way can we ensure the security of our free movement area, that is, give our citizens guarantees that they can move freely.
madam president, i would like to say first of all that, in line with what president daul said and what mr langen said, it is essential that there should be an economic government of the union, but that this economic government should be centred on the commission. this is the first point i would like to stress and, having said that, i would say that we should not only, as has been the case all morning, have our debate focused on the immediate issues, but also on those which are in the strategy 2020 and i would particularly stress the issue of education and training for the youngest, the issue of innovation, research and development. because these are the niches that will enable europe to be competitive in the global space, and today i have to say that unfortunately the european education model has failed and failed because, when compared to the model of emerging countries like india, like china, like brazil, it is today a less demanding and less rigorous model and, therefore, it is also required that, in the audacity of this idea of innovation, development, research and education, there is rigor and demand in the context of european education systems. only with this rigor and demand will we prepare our young people to compete in the global market. we cannot think only of the crisis of this year or of the next two or three years, we must think of the strategy for europe in the next ten to twenty years, and it depends on a rigorous and demanding education system.
this crisis is the result of too much liberalism and has put an end to the illusion that democracy and the market would solve all the world's problems. the question that the next council must answer is this: has the european union done everything it should have done at the right time? i hope the council has the courage to take the decisions that the citizens expect. it's not enough to have nice words, we need good decisions. what is the point of talking about supervision, regulation, sustainable growth if we do not end tax havens and the casino economy? good intentions are not enough, we need results. strategy 2020 will be of little use if there is no real economic governance of the union. the future of the union is in our hands. it cannot be dependent on the ratings of credit agencies serving the interests of speculators. the union is an extraordinary instrument which we have not been able to exploit and develop.
in writing. in the face of the deepening economic and social crisis - a vivid libel hanging over the eu and the economic and social policies it is pursuing - the commission and the european council are showing an unprecedented brazenness. the declared objectives of recovery from the crisis, growth, social cohesion and economic cohesion, which have been repeatedly stated and are undeniably necessary, are clearly in contradiction with the imposition of the irrational criteria of the so-called stability and growth pact, with the so-called budgetary consolidation focused on expenditure, carried out at all costs and without taking into account the specificities of each member state, especially the weakest and most dependent economies. we are well aware of the significance and implications of this approach: increased pressure on the labour market, on the labour force - in the sense of devaluing it, intensifying exploitation, on the social protection, health and education systems, in short, aiming at the dismantling of the social functions of the states. the severity of these guidelines, which impose on the workers and peoples the bill for a crisis for which they are not responsible, contrasts with complacency towards financial capital, since little more than vague and generic intentions are announced - yet very insufficient and to be realized no one knows when...
in writing. - i welcome the bonus programme which will integrate national research activities of the member states and the european commission in the area of the environment and management of marine resources in the baltic sea. the bonus programme is an innovative model and an example for other forms of regional cooperation in the field of scientific research. like the baltic sea region, other regions, such as the south-west europe region, would also benefit from concerted action between member states and the commission to address common challenges and support the sustainable development of their regions. there are research programmes undertaken individually by the member states of this region of europe which could gain critical mass in strategic areas. i urge the european parliament and the commission to consider the possibility of creating a joint research programme for the south-west europe region, focusing on areas of great importance such as the sea, marine energy sources, with a view to the sustainable development of the european atlantic axis and its neighbouring regions.
in writing. the baltic sea has experienced periods of great prosperity and activity, such as the heyday of the hanseatic league, which allowed for the fruitful exchange of people, goods and knowledge between different territories belonging to different nations. these exchanges helped to strengthen the links between the league's cities and fostered the emergence of de facto solidarities such as those that, centuries later, schuman would advocate as the best method of making europe. the particular semi-enclosed shape of the baltic sea and the flow of vessels that ply it have led to the accumulation of large quantities of pollutants from various sources, which must be removed urgently or else the entire ecosystem of the region will be threatened. the european union should contribute to the implementation of projects aimed at promoting maritime research and development and the baltic sea. given the particularly serious circumstances affecting him, it should be a priority.
in writing. − the baltic sea and its coast have been plagued by problems of pollution, acidification and loss of natural resources and biodiversity. in order to reduce pollution in the baltic sea, eight eu member states, denmark, estonia, finland, germany, latvia, lithuania, poland and sweden, will implement a baltic sea development programme called 'bonus'. this programme aims to support scientific development and innovation by providing the necessary legal and organisational framework for transnational cooperation between the baltic states in the field of environmental research in the baltic sea region, which is in line with the eu2020 objectives for research and knowledge. the eu contribution shall be up to eur 50 million for the entire implementation period, equivalent to the contribution of the participating states, in order to promote their interest in the joint implementation of the programme. i welcome the financial support of the european commission for this programme and especially the fact that the participating member states will ensure the sustainability of this programme even after eu funding. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world, so the bonus 169 programme makes perfect sense. it's important to know why this is the case, why pollution levels are so high. the eu must attach enormous importance to the oceans so that future generations can enjoy all their inherent potential, i.e. present and future economic, social and scientific potential. it is also worth noting that i share the view that we should involve russia in this matter, since it is one of the main polluters of the baltic sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the gnss agency (european global navigation satellite system) (the agency) is hereby established, which replaces the european gnss supervisory authority (the authority) established by council regulation (ec) no 1321/2004 (the regulation) on the management structures for european satellite radio navigation programmes. this change is due to the fact that several of the authority's functions are now carried out by the european commission. it is therefore necessary to revise the regulation to take account of the fact that the agency is no longer responsible for the management of the public interest relating to the european global navigation satellite system (gnss) and for the regulation of those programmes.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 683/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 july 2008 on the further implementation of the european satellite navigation programmes (egnos and galileo) sets out the new framework for the public governance and funding of the galileo and egnos programmes. it provides for the principle of a strict division of powers between the european community, represented by the commission, the authority and the european space agency, and makes the commission responsible for the management of the programmes. furthermore, the regulation provides that the authority shall carry out the tasks assigned to it in respect of the management role played by the commission and shall act in accordance with the guidelines developed by the commission, which has the obligation to inform the european parliament and the council of the consequences of the adoption of accreditation decisions for the harmonious development of the programmes. i think it is important that the member states and the commission are represented on the management board, which has the powers to draw up the budget, monitor its implementation, adopt the appropriate financial rules, establish a transparent procedure for decision-making by the agency, approve the work programme and appoint the executive director.
, in writing. − amendments to regulation (ec) no 683/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the further implementation of the european satellite navigation programmes (egnos and galileo) were adopted, which sets out the new framework for public governance and funding of these programmes. it provides for the principle of the division of competences between the european community, represented by the commission, the authority and the european space agency, and makes the commission responsible for the management of the programmes. in order to ensure that the agency carries out its tasks in respect of the role of programme manager of the commission and in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the commission, it has been expressly provided that the agency is managed by its executive director, under the direction of the management board, in accordance with the guidelines laid down for the agency by the commission, and that the representative of the commission on the management board of the agency has 30% of the voting rights. given that the management board must adopt its decisions by a two-thirds majority, the commission, with one-third of the votes, may, with the support of at least one member state, block any decision of the management board which is not in accordance with the commission's guidelines. since we have doubts about what is proposed, we have opted to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, considering its implications for the future commission budget and the contribution that space activities can make to the 2020 strategy for innovative high-tech growth, skilled employment and european cohesion. the potential of a programme like gmes - as is the case with the excellent work being carried out in the azores - to support biodiversity, ecosystem management, adaptation to climate change, the provision of rapid emergency response services, land and marine monitoring or even support for transport policy, not to mention the security aspect it provides, particularly in border control and marine surveillance, must be recognised. it should be noted that these services are crucial for a 'new economy' in a number of remote, island and outermost regions which, by relying on these types of technologies, which are likely to be 'exported', are contributing not only to the creation of added value for these nereus regions, but also to the creation of skilled employment and the increase in the attractiveness of these same regions through science and technology, while waiting for the establishment of cadres and new companies.
in writing. − i welcome the eu's strategic decision to develop a european earth observation facility dedicated to environmental and security areas, led by the eu in partnership with member states and the european space agency, with the aim of promoting better exploitation of the industrial potential of policies for innovation, research and technological development in the field of earth observation. gmes can bring tangible benefits to europeans in terms of jobs, competence, safety and environmental protection. it is also fully compatible with the eu2020 strategy and the post-copenhagen strategies. gmes is a key tool in support of biodiversity, ecosystem management and climate change mitigation. it will contribute to greater security, for example by providing information on natural disasters such as forest fires or floods. it will also help to improve the management of natural resources, to monitor the quality of water and air, to plan cities, to facilitate the flow of transport, to optimise our agricultural activities and to promote renewable energy. i believe that i have the potential to significantly improve the living conditions of our generation and our children's generation.
in writing. - space policy has been elevated by the present commission to the status of a key sector in the future of the european union. the european earth observation programme, in this context, could be a challenge for the european union by fostering the development of its industrial strategy (in particular the space industry), by creating benefits for citizens in terms of job creation and the development of research for innovation, by improving environmental research and the safety of citizens and, finally, by creating synergies with other sectors, which could create interesting opportunities for smes. the development of this programme, which is the responsibility of the commission, requires additional budgetary resources, which is why we believe that this should be carefully assessed when the multiannual financial framework is revised.
in writing. − the regulation on the european earth observation programme (gmes) and its initial operations is designed to provide europe with its own earth observation capability in the fields of environment and security. gmes, like the galileo satellite navigation programme, is a union infrastructure which makes it possible to manage the environment better and at the same time to increase the safety of citizens. in the face of climate change and in order to strengthen civil protection this is a very important programme. in fact, this regulation will provide the means to gather accurate data on land, sea and atmospheric changes. this increases our capacity to prevent and manage large-scale disasters, such as oil spills, forest fires, floods and landslides. this regulation covers only the financial needs for the period 2011-2013, which is a cause for concern. it is noted that esa's commitments for the launch of the sentinel satellites require timely and precise preparation and imply huge costs for the actual launch, planned for the period 2014-2017. the commission and the council are thus expected to find a suitable solution to this problem.
in writing. the gmes initiative, earth observation, is a project of considerable importance for the future of the european union. this is a union infrastructure which makes it possible to manage the environment better and to increase the safety of citizens. this programme can serve as an example of the will to create a genuine european industrial strategy in the space industry and will create more benefits for society. it will lead to more jobs, more security and environmental protection. it will open up a significant market niche for smes.
in writing. - i have approved this motion for a resolution, taking into account that the objective of this agency is to promote the widespread and increasing adoption and sustainable use of all forms of renewable energy, thus underlining in its objectives, which are fundamental for the azores, beyond the conservation of the environment and protection of the climate and biodiversity, economic growth and economic and social cohesion, in particular with poverty reduction and sustainable development and above all regional. the adoption of this statute must take account of the fact that national and internal priorities are safeguarded, but it must also mention the importance of renewable energy for island, remote and peripheral regions, and we hope that this agency will work towards energy independence for this type of territory and contribute with valid solutions to increase the exploitation of this type of energy, in particular by supporting new tests and studies of the potential of this type of energy source in the regions that suffer most from territorial discontinuity. it is necessary to state that this agency, having a european and international character, must design solutions for these regions.
in writing. - i welcome the approval of the conclusion of the statute of the international renewable energy agency (irena). renewable energy is one of the key solutions for the future. different countries have different political and economic approaches to encouraging the production and use of renewable energy. however, despite its enormous potential, the current use of renewable energy is still limited. the obstacles are varied and include lengthy import tariff licensing processes and technical barriers, uncertainty about financing renewable energy projects, and insufficient awareness of renewable energy opportunities. it is therefore essential that the international renewable energy agency fulfils its objective of becoming a centre of excellence for renewable energy, advises public authorities on the preparation of national programmes for the introduction of renewable energy, disseminates information on renewable energy and offers training and advice on best practices and financing options.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the statute of the international renewable energy agency, which will make it possible to promote renewable energy and thus contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. - i would like to reiterate today, on the occasion of the european union's signing of the statute of the international renewable energy agency, what i said on 20 october last year: it is precisely because i am constantly concerned about limiting our energy dependence and i am sure that the way forward is towards supporting and developing renewable energy that i am pleased that portugal is a founding member of the international renewable energy agency (irena). that is also why i support the european community's accession to the statute of the international renewable energy agency.
in writing. − irena, of which portugal is a founding member, was officially established on 26 january 2009. the use of renewable energy is one of the main objectives of eu climate change policies. irena will therefore contribute to the implementation of these objectives, in particular with regard to increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy production by 20% by 2020. i therefore voted in favour of adopting its statute.
in writing. − as resources such as oil become less available and more expensive, we will increasingly have to opt for alternative and renewable energy sources such as water, wind, sea waves, solar energy, which are inexhaustible resources. this is why these resources have become more and more important in the world context, and the creation of the international renewable resources agency (irena) is of extreme importance. hence my vote.
in writing. - i regret once again that the rome iii regulation, adopted in october 2008 by the european parliament, has ended up being blocked at council level. i am glad that several member states, not accepting this situation, have decided to use enhanced cooperation to move forward with this proposal which should allow couples with partners of different nationalities or residing in a country other than their own, at an already difficult time in their lives, to have the possibility of choosing the law that should apply to their divorce. the need for common rules is clear, given that some 350 000 marriages between people of different nationalities take place in the european union every year and that some 20% of all divorces in the eu have crossborder implications. i therefore support the authorization of enhanced cooperation between these 14 member states, including portugal. i hope that others will take the decision to join this initiative, which helps to facilitate the proper functioning of the internal market by removing possible obstacles to the free movement of persons. i look forward to the concrete legislative proposal being presented to us as soon as possible.
in writing. − because of their sensitivity and particular nature, family law issues are the exclusive competence of the member states. however, there have been many attempts to 'communitise' these matters. the initiative to allow enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation is another one in this regard. i am sensitive to the legal issues and practical problems raised by the dissolution of marriages between nationals of different states, and i believe that this is a matter which deserves to be treated with the utmost caution.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report which should allow couples from different member states or residing in a country other than their own to choose the law that should apply to their divorce. in 2007, 140 000 divorces were entered into in the eu between couples from different member states. in these cases, european citizens are confronted with problems of the legal order applicable to their separation. i would also like to stress the activation of the enhanced cooperation procedure to which portugal is a party, which has enabled progress to be made on this report, which was blocked in the council by disputes over family law (e.g. in malta, marriage cannot be dissolved by divorce).
in writing. − in the absence of complete harmonisation of the laws of the member states on divorce and legal separation, enhanced cooperation in this area has made significant progress, leading to greater harmonisation of private international law and strengthening the process of integration.
in writing. − the so-called convergence reports of the commission and the ecb allow an assessment of the progress made in the member states with a derogation and whether they are already in a position to fulfil their obligations relating to the achievement of economic and monetary union. the 2010 convergence report covers the nine member states still benefiting from a derogation (bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, latvia, lithuania, hungary, poland, romania and sweden), as the united kingdom and denmark have not so far expressed a willingness to adopt the euro. according to the report, of all the member states assessed, only estonia fulfils the necessary criteria for adopting the euro. the purpose of this proposal for a decision is therefore to abolish the derogation for estonia with effect from 1 january 2011. i voted in favour and congratulate estonia on having achieved all the necessary conditions, especially at this time of global economic crisis.
in writing. − it is with a sense of responsibility that i vote in favour of this report and the proposal for estonia to adopt the euro as from 1 january 2011. in a difficult context of the global economic, financial and social crisis which has affected nominal convergence in other member states, estonia has been successful in implementing a broad set of major structural reforms which have enabled it to meet the convergence criteria. the credible and sustained efforts of the estonian government and people are particularly visible in the public debt, the lowest in the eu, and the deficit, which in 2009 was below the 3% target set by the maastricht criteria. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the accession of estonia to the eurogroup. estonia's accession to the euro once again highlights the vision, attraction and confidence of the member states not yet in the euro area in the single currency and its future.
in writing. − at a time when the euro's detractors are questioning the viability of the single currency, the union is once again showing that this is a project that maintains its strength and persists in its objectives, while retaining all the capacity and attraction for new states. since estonia has fulfilled all the maastricht criteria, in accordance with article 140 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union ('tfeu') and the protocol (no 13) on the convergence criteria annexed to the tfeu, there is no reason to delay the adoption of the euro by this baltic state. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the estonian authorities have not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the integration of the single currency, as this crisis has shown, is not an end in itself. the effort to consolidate the budget and balance the public accounts should be continuous, active and effective. i congratulate estonia, despite the difficult time for its adoption, and its people and government, on joining the euro, and i hope that they will continue the efforts for convergence undertaken so far.
in writing. − given estonia's economic indicators and the sustainability of its public accounts, i am in favour of its adoption of the euro on 1 january 2011. in the current context of global crisis and continuing financial market pressure on the euro, estonia's entry into the euro area is a positive sign that reinforces the importance and viability of the european process of economic and monetary integration. i would like to highlight the example of estonia, which has managed to combine progress with the rigorous and sustainable management of public accounts. despite the negative economic environment, it posted a deficit of 1,7% of gdp in 2009, while the overall government debt-to-gdp ratio was 7,2% of gdp, well below the 60% reference value in the european union. in this context, i reaffirm the urgent need to set up effective mechanisms to monitor the economic and budgetary performance of all member states on a permanent basis and in real time, in order to ensure that the convergence criteria are met.
in writing. - monetary union, despite the financial crisis and the attacks on the euro, is an undeniable reality and must be strengthened by the gradual entry of all member states not yet members. the conclusion that estonia, despite the international crisis, has met the maastricht criteria and can thus become a full member of the euro area as of 1 january 2011 is good news for those who advocate an ever-stronger economic and monetary union.
in writing. − the total amounts (included in amending budgets drawn up after the provisional annual accounts were closed at the end of march and) returned to the member states since 2007 are as follows: the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council on the draft amending budget for the financial year 2007 to 31 december 2007 (see recital 13 above). the total value of surpluses is the result of a combination of three factors: the implementation of expenditure, the implementation of revenue and the change in exchange rates. the surpluses are not returned directly to the member states but are entered as revenue in the next budget in accordance with the financial regulation. the immediate consequence is a reduction in the own resources to be charged to the member states. i believe that these surpluses should be reinforced in the budget for the following year by increasing commitment expenditure, or reverted to a european fund that would finance eu priorities. it is important, however, that there is the flexibility to avoid these surpluses. the annual surpluses are the result of the fact that the policies and measures proposed and planned for the development of the european union have not been fully implemented. i therefore believe that the final adoption of amending budget no 4/2010 must be an opportunity to reflect on the budgetary situation in the european union.
in writing. - to agree that parliament's position rejects the council's assertion that the failure of parliament and the council to monitor the implementation of their respective sections of the budget in the past was the result of the knights agreement (resolution agreed at the council's meeting of 22 april 1970); considers that the cavalheiros agreement is not a binding document and that the council's interpretation of it is too lax; - consider that the drawing up of the budget and the discharge are two separate processes and that the gentlemen's agreement between the council and parliament on the drawing up of the respective sections of the budget should not relieve the council of its responsibility to give an account to the public of the funds placed at its disposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that, given the increase in administrative expenditure and especially because of the possibility of operational expenditure, the expenditure of the council should be controlled in the same way as that of the other eu institutions under the discharge procedure provided for in article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; because i agree that both the council and the european parliament, in their capacity as joint budgetary authorities, should establish an annual procedure under the discharge procedure with a view to improving the exchange of information on their respective budgets; and because i consider that the drawing up of the budget and the discharge are two separate processes and that the 'gentlemen's agreement' between the council and parliament on the drawing up of the respective sections of the budget should not relieve the council of its responsibility to be accountable to the public for the funds placed at its disposal.
in writing. - in the interests of transparency towards citizens and of rigor, i believe that the council is not exempt from its responsibility to give an account to the public of the funds placed at its disposal. i therefore support the rapporteur's decision to postpone the decision on the discharge to the council until the additional information requested has been provided.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that, given the increase in administrative expenditure and, in particular, because of the possibility of operational expenditure, the expenditure of the council should be controlled in the same way as that of the other eu institutions under the discharge procedure provided for in article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the rights of interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings because it strengthens the rights of citizens who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. i consider it important that member states ensure that suspects or accused persons who do not understand or speak the language of the criminal proceedings in question are provided with interpretation services without delay.
in writing. - we all know that criminal justice, in order to function effectively, must specifically provide for the rights of suspects and/or accused persons, in order to guarantee them an adequate possibility of defence through appropriate legal and judicial means. in this context, it is essential that suspects and/or accused persons are guaranteed the right to be informed, in a language they know, of their rights and duties and the content of the charge against them, as well as of everything that is decisive for the proceedings in which they are involved. this is the only way to ensure an effective defence, the cornerstone of the rule of law and modern criminal procedure. i also welcome the council's decision to progressively adopt measures of judicial cooperation in this and other areas, since the safeguarding of procedural rights is the key to quicker, more effective and fairer proceedings.
in writing. − the creation of a free area within the multiplicity of realities that make up the european union cannot be achieved without guaranteeing equal conditions for every european citizen throughout the european area, in particular in access to justice, as a basic value of democracy and of any rule of law. i therefore support the introduction of a directive which will ensure that all member states have common standards for interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings in the european union, allowing any citizen outside his country of origin to have the right to express himself and to be heard in his mother tongue, or in another language he accepts as valid, in police interrogations or court hearings. given the importance of ensuring a fairer europe for the consolidation of european integration, i call for these new measures to be implemented as quickly as possible in all member states and for the european union to be able to pursue the process of further harmonisation in the area of guarantees of rights and judicial procedures.
in writing. − the search for an eu as an area of freedom, security and justice is reinforced by the adoption of this regulation. it is very important that a citizen of any member state should have the right to interpretation and translation of all parts of his criminal proceedings, so that mutual trust and cooperation between member states can be strengthened and the rights of individuals can be safeguarded in a fully informed manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of rejecting the european commission's proposal on the organisation of working time for persons performing mobile road transport activities. the commission should accept the wishes expressed by the european parliament and amend the present proposal. all workers, not just employees, engaged in this activity should have a weekly workload limitation to ensure greater safety for european road users and to avoid unfair competition in the road transport sector.
in writing. − legal certainty is an essential value for the correct application of the law, which is why any amendment of a legal text which creates additional difficulties in defining its scope of application should be rejected as a bad legal technique. as there are still many doubts about the scope of the proposed directive, particularly as regards the distinction between self-employed drivers and mobile workers, we agree with the rapporteur that it should be recast.
in writing. − the competitiveness and viability of enterprises cannot be sustained by rules which are distorted and disproportionate to the general values and principles of labour law, since they only serve to promote situations of unfair competition and precariousness of the labour market. in the case of transport, the possibility of granting exceptional treatment to selfemployed drivers, by releasing them from a set of rights and obligations laid down in the legislation for the sector, especially as regards working time, would create an unacceptable situation of inequality and unfair competition in relation to salaried drivers, in addition to the aggravation of road safety and the risks to life. i therefore voted against the commission proposal, because i considered that it did not contribute to dignity, safety, health, welfare and fair competition at work.
in writing. - it was very important that the european parliament voted today to reject the proposal, which we support, to reject the european commission's proposal to exclude selfemployed bus and lorry drivers from the legislation regulating working time in this profession. the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament, whose position was confirmed in plenary, believes that self-employed drivers should be subject to the same standards as employees, for health and safety reasons and to ensure fair competition in the sector. the commission proposal, which was rejected by 368 votes to 301, with 8 abstentions, was intended to amend the 2002 directive on the organisation of working time for persons performing mobile road transport activities. the rejection of this proposal means that the 2002 directive (directive 2002/15/ec) which provides that self-employed drivers are to be covered by the same rules as employees from 23 march 2009 remains in force. we therefore consider this vote to be of great importance in order to combat social dumping, to defend the right to health and rest of workers in the sector and to improve road safety conditions.
in writing. - we voted today on a dossier on the protection of the health and safety of workers which has generated a relevant debate. the european commission's proposal to parliament proposed that the directive should not cover selfemployed road transport workers, i.e. drivers who are selfemployed and not employed. however, the report adopted by the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs proposed that the commission's proposal be rejected. i believe that the two fundamental issues underlying this dossier relate, on the one hand, to the need for a european definition of the concept of selfemployed and, on the other, to the need for each member state to make an additional effort to ensure that workers who are not free to organise their professional activities and who therefore should not be employed as selfemployed are properly covered by contracts. while i believe that the phenomenon of 'fake' selfemployed should be tackled at national level through appropriate regulation, monitoring and sanctions, it seems to me that the discussion that has begun can help to pave the way in this direction. that is why, after having followed this dossier closely, i thought it right to vote against the european commission's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation on food labelling because it aims to help consumers make more informed choices - by extending mandatory labelling to other nutrients and introducing new rules on the country of origin - and because it simplifies, updates and merges, in a single document, seven directives and a regulation currently in force on food labelling, thus simplifying legislation. i also argued that artisanal foodstuffs and wines were not covered by this regulation because of their particular nature, which in the case of wine has already been translated into a regulation of its own. as regards country of origin labelling, which is already mandatory for certain foods such as beef, honey, fruit, vegetables and olive oil, it should be extended to all types of meat, poultry and dairy products. the country of origin shall also be indicated for meat, poultry and fish used as ingredients in processed foods. as regards meat and meat-containing foodstuffs, origin should be defined as the country where the animal was born, raised and slaughtered, and not where the meat is processed, as is currently the case.
in writing. - consumers have the right to know what is in the food they eat. for this reason, information on the composition and nutritional value of food is indispensable, as it is the first factor enabling the consumer to make specific choices. the commission proposal for a recast of the community rules on food labelling is designed to simplify the existing framework for this purpose. the proposal also aims to provide greater legal certainty for those involved in the food chain, to increase the competitiveness of the european food industry, to ensure food safety, to provide consumers with complete information on food products and to promote healthy eating as part of the european union's strategy to combat obesity. i welcome the following basic proposals contained in the regulation: · all mandatory entries must be in characters of a minimum size of 3 mm. · inscription of a comprehensive nutrition declaration in the 'main field of view' of the packaging. · mandatory information on the energy value of the food and the fat content, saturated fatty acids, glycides, with a specific reference to sugars and salt, listed in the respective order on the front of the packaging. i call on the member states to adopt these standards in ... (summary statement pursuant to rule 170 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. − the existence of a uniform food labelling system within the internal market is not only vital and necessary to ensure high levels of food safety for the european consumer, but also an important instrument for the competitiveness of companies in the sector in intra-community trade. i therefore vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, in which i support the rejection of the traffic light system as a system for reporting the levels of fat, carbohydrates and proteins, and in favour of the adoption of a simple, transparent and easily understandable community labelling system. providing consumers with information on the composition and nutritional value of foods, as well as on the main nutritional ingredients and their energy value, is essential to guide them in making informed and informed choices and purchases. i therefore believe that the commission has adopted a paternalistic position in this matter by seeking to guide the consumer in his choices rather than inform him. however, i believe that direct marketing by farmers and local and regional products should not be subject to the rules of this regulation, since it is these products that contribute to the diversity of european gastronomic culture.
in writing. − we now know that poor nutrition and the abuse of certain nutrients (such as salt or fats) can be responsible for a number of diseases which not only represent serious public health problems but also a very high cost for health systems. in many cases these are diseases (such as hypertension) that could be prevented with better nutrition and proper information. i therefore consider it essential that there should be adequate regulation of food labelling. we cannot legislate a healthy diet; but we can give consumers the information they need to know exactly what they're consuming, and then make an informed choice. these are not measures against food producers (the proposal is reasonable to the extent of excluding traditional products and small and medium-sized restaurants serving unpackaged meals) but in favour of public health.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report on food information for consumers, which combines and replaces seven directives and one regulation. food labelling is crucial to ensuring food safety. i am in favour of clear information for the consumer, less red tape, simplification of regulations, greater legal certainty and increased competitiveness of the food industry, without ever forgetting small businesses. i am glad that direct marketing by farmers and local and artisanal products are not subject to the rules of this regulation, as the commission had intended. it is products like these that guarantee our roots, our cultural and gastronomic diversity. i am also pleased that prepackaged products served in small restaurants, hotels and cafes are not covered by this regulation. the same is true of wine. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for the introduction of a european label for wines. the consumer must be informed, but without being pressured or directed to make a choice. the consumer must have the freedom and responsibility of his decision.
in writing. - the right to know the composition of food as fully as possible and as reasonably justified is a fundamental right of consumers. it is also a necessary, though not sufficient, condition for informed and conscious food choices and, as such, a factor in promoting the health and well-being of populations. we recognize and support the fact that the structure of the proposal applies primarily to prepackaged food and that the specificities of the catering sector and the heavy weight of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in it should be safeguarded, since prepared meals cannot be considered as standardised products. however, we regret that many relevant amendments have been rejected, significantly impoverishing the content of the report - which we cannot but consider a concession by the majority of this parliament to the interests of some powerful sectors of the food industry. as an example, note the rejection of the amendment that provided for consumer information if the product intended for consumption is a genetically modified product and/or contains derivatives and substances classifiable as gmos.
in writing. − the labelling of foodstuffs is intended to ensure that consumers have complete information on the content and composition of these products in order to protect their health and interests. we therefore believe that labelling of foodstuffs is essential to increase market transparency, as it allows producers to inform consumers in a regulated and credible manner about the quality and/or regional specificity of their products. we also welcome the fact that traditionally or artisanally produced food and wine deserve special treatment, which takes account of their particularities.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report which, in general, responds in a balanced way to the initial proposal of the european commission, advocating exemption from the scope of the regulation for non-pre-packaged products and regional products; exemption from the labelling obligation for wines and wine products; rejection of the 'traffic light' system (red, yellow or green to illustrate carbohydrate, protein and fat levels); and mandatory indication of the place of origin of meat, subject to the results of an impact analysis to be carried out by the european commission. the derogations provided for, in respect of the general arrangements applicable, for regional products, wine and, to a certain extent, meat are positive. the initial proposal of the european commission would severely penalise portugal, which, recognised for its historic gastronomic traditions, would face increased competitiveness problems in relation to the northern eu member states, with a highly industrialised gastronomy and with little use of traditional techniques and/or instruments. in addition, the report makes a very positive provision that direct marketing by farmers will not be subject to the rules of the general regulation.
in writing. − a uniform food labelling system at community level is needed to ensure greater transparency through simplified information for consumers, more legal certainty for food businesses and greater clarity of the community acquis. in my view, the commission has gone too far in its proposal in trying to educate consumers about their preferences. the information on labels should be limited to the essential. i therefore supported the rapporteur in her amendments rejecting the traffic light system to illustrate carbohydrate, protein and fat levels and her proposals to include, in a visible way, information on the energy value and nutritional value on the packaging. i believe, however, that community legislation should exclude local and artisanal products and products marketed directly by farmers. regional products ensure the continuity of local specialities and the diversity of the offer. in view of their specific nature and the fact that they are themselves a guarantee of european diversity, the regulation should not apply to those products. i also hope that the rules adopted today will not harm small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector and that the five-year transitional period provided for in the document adopted will allow them to adapt more effectively.
in writing. − the adoption of the new eu 2020 strategy must take account of the growing effects of the economic and financial crisis affecting the eu as a whole. a forward-looking, ambitious and coherent strategy is therefore needed. in this new eu 2020 strategy, it is essential to put people and environmental protection at the heart of governance. the member states must be concerned to reduce their public expenditure by means of major structural reforms. efforts need to be focused on citizens by strengthening their participation and autonomy, encouraging their entrepreneurship and innovation, and on smes by making the legislation more favourable to them. a strategy to accelerate sustainable economic growth, together with reforms to boost and improve competitiveness, is needed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on strategy 2020. in the face of the serious financial, economic and social crisis we are experiencing, strategy 2020, which will be adopted by the council this week, should be equipped with instruments and targets to meet the challenge. today we are witnessing an unprecedented weakening of the states' capacity to respond. we must therefore identify common causes and allies and act clearly and unitedly on the european and world stage. if we do not take the necessary measures of collective rigour and accountability, europe will be condemned to marginalisation and impoverishment. only a strong europe, respecting its common rules, can give an adequate response to the new times. it is essential for the successful implementation and achievement of this strategy that clear quantifiable targets are set in the areas of employment, in particular education and poverty reduction. it is also essential that everything is done to facilitate the transposition of the national targets by the member states and to ensure the proper implementation of the 2020 strategy. finally, i would stress the importance of the european parliament's full involvement and participation in the implementation of this new strategy together with the commission and the council.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy should, at this stage, focus on concrete, real measures within the reach of the member states, so that it produces the intended effects. innovation, research and development and a focus on the skills of workers are key to enhancing europe's competitiveness in a globalised world. this path will make it possible to cope with the current crisis by reducing unemployment levels and encouraging investment. a more consolidated cohesion policy is also important in order to reduce the differences between regions and thus to put the principle of union solidarity into practice. i strongly support the various flagship initiatives and believe that these initiatives will lead to an improvement in living conditions in the union and to greater competitiveness vis-à-vis third countries.
in writing. - we voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the eu 2020 strategy because, although it criticises the proposal put forward by the european commission, it does not go to the heart of the problem and does not propose a break with the neoliberal policies which remain the main guiding principle of the european commission's proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the end of the stability and growth pact and its stupid criteria, which only serve as an argument to facilitate the increase in the exploitation of the working class, as is happening in portugal. but it was also necessary to end liberalisation, including in the financial and energy sectors, to ensure greater state control and to prevent them from pursuing their policy of increasing profits at the expense of price increases on consumers and customers and of lowering the value of workers.
in writing. - considers that the agreement on the european financial stabilisation mechanism to ensure the stability of the euro is an important first step towards providing the european union with a more robust and sustainable economic and monetary policy framework, but regrets that european policy makers have not acted decisively earlier, despite the deepening financial crisis; - consider that recent events show that the euro area needs bolder economic governance and that a monetary pillar without a social and economic pillar is doomed to failure; - agree that in order to restore healthy growth rates and achieve the objective of sustainable economic development and social cohesion, priority should be given to addressing the issue of persistent and significant macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness disparities. i welcome the recognition of this need by the commission in its communication on economic policy coordination.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that strengthening economic governance must go hand in hand with strengthening the democratic legitimacy of european governance, which must be achieved through closer and more timely involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments throughout the process; because i agree that for the europe 2020 strategy to be credible, greater compatibility and complementarity between the national budgets of the 27 member states and the eu budget is needed and why the eu budget should play a more important role by pooling resources; and because i consider it important that the eu budget should reflect the need to finance the transition to an environmentally sustainable economy.
in writing. − economic governance is of particular importance today, when many member states are in particularly difficult circumstances, due to their high deficits and debt, and when exceptional economic restrictive decisions have been taken, often with dramatic consequences for their populations. the whole economic governance framework, the whole implementation of the stability and growth pact and the national programmes have to be analysed. more effective measures should be adopted. it is essential that the current situation be exploited, both at the level of the european union and at the level of national governments, to restructure existing economic governance mechanisms and national public finances with a view to long-term sustainability and effective growth of the european economy. i also believe that coordination between the member states and the community institutions is essential for a more rapid and effective solution to national problems affecting the whole of the union and, in particular, the euro area.
in writing. − i am in favour of greater political integration in the eu and coordinated and strengthened economic governance. europe needs a de facto solidarity. this solidarity implies the existence of liability on the part of all member states which cannot harm others by mismanagement and incompetence or concealment of data in public accounts. the european financial stability facility to ensure the stability of the euro is an important first step towards providing the european union with a more robust and sustainable economic and monetary policy framework. it's a pity this mechanism took so long. i would like to see a mechanism for monitoring the public accounts and deficits of each member state so that the widespread sanctions are not applied. i also believe that there is a 'european monetary fund' (emf) to which the euro area member states would contribute in proportion to their gdp. sustainable public finances are essential for the stability and growth of the euro area. but it is important to restore growth rates and achieve the objective of sustainable economic development and social cohesion, and priority should be given to addressing the issue of persistent and significant macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness disparities.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis has shown that the eu needs ever stronger economic and monetary governance, so that the stability of the euro and monetary union itself are not jeopardised. the eu 2020 strategy should therefore seek to promote economic growth and create jobs, as the sharp fall in gdp, the decline in industrial production and the high number of unemployed constitute a major social and economic challenge, which only strong, harmonious and united governance can overcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that strengthening economic governance must go hand in hand with strengthening the democratic legitimacy of european governance, which must be achieved through closer and more timely involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments throughout the process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it essential that a committee be set up to start discussing the financial perspective after 2013, in particular to calculate the financial resources the union needs to achieve its objectives and pursue its policies for the period starting on 1 january 2014, to define the duration of the next mff and to propose, in accordance with the objectives and priorities set, a framework for the future mff, indicating the main areas of activity of the union;
in writing. − i believe that the establishment of a special committee on the political challenges and budgetary resources available to the union after 2013 is essential for the elaboration of the concrete priorities for the next community budget and for the definition and adoption of the regulation on the multiannual financial framework. in fact, in the current crisis context, it is necessary to rethink how the union's financial perspective can make up for the damage done and to create a framework to deal with possible future problems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the establishment of this committee because i consider it of paramount importance that, in the light of the competences resulting from the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament should take a clear strategic line for the financial perspective after 2013, so that the political priorities to be defined can contribute to the consolidation of european integration. i am in favour of greater political integration and a coordinated and strengthened european governance. i believe that the european project can only progress if there is real solidarity, which provides strong economic, social and territorial cohesion. it will be important for this committee to be able to reach consensus on the reform of the system of financing the eu budget in order to provide a solid basis for the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework. i am a member of this committee on behalf of the epp, aware of the importance of the work that this committee will be doing and the difficulties it will be facing. i am convinced, however, that the great difficulties in reaching consensus on a europe of genuine solidarity and greater political integration will be overcome in the european parliament. i hope the same will be true in the council.
in writing. − the composition and objectives of this committee will be crucial to achieving a multiannual financial framework (mff) to be applied from 2014 onwards, which can be prepared for the major challenges ahead, in particular in supporting sustainable and qualitative growth and long-term investment, in order to deal with the long-term effects of the crisis currently being felt in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it essential that a committee be set up to start discussing the financial perspective after 2013, in particular to specify the relationship between the reform of the system of financing the eu budget and a review of expenditure, in order to provide the committee on budgets with a solid basis for the negotiations on the new mff.
in writing. - this is a vote on the reorganisation of the numerical composition of the delegation to the cariforum-eu parliamentary commission. i have no objection to the adoption of this proposal for a decision. i voted for it.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of article j.3 of the treaty on european union. in 2001, in response to concerns raised by governments and non-governmental organisations about the use of police and security equipment for torture, the european parliament adopted a resolution urging the commission to come forward with a proposal for european legislation to regulate the trade in such items. the commission submitted its proposal the following year, which was adopted in 2005, constituting regulation (ec) no 1236 of 27 june 2005. the regulation introduces, for the first time, a binding control on a number of equipment commonly used in serious human rights violations, but which has not been included in the dual-use or strategic export lists of member states. it prohibits the export and import of products intended for that purpose which may be used only for that purpose and makes the export and import of products which may be used for that purpose subject to authorization. the regulation imposes information and reporting obligations on member states on the application of its rules. the 2005 regulation represents, as already mentioned, a remarkable step forward in the defence of the most essential human rights, namely human life and personal integrity, which are at the heart of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as well as of international human rights instruments and conventions, both of the united nations and of the council of europe. the entry into force of the regulation was welcomed by human rights organisations and, as mentioned above, the un special rapporteur on torture welcomed the regulation as an important milestone in the fight against torture and as a model which could be followed by countries in other regions. but, ladies and gentlemen, what good is a regulation of this kind if it is not properly applied? and how can we even know whether it is being properly implemented if the member states, who are responsible for its implementation, do not report on its results, as required by the regulation? in fact, it is deeply frustrating to know that only seven countries have provided information on the licensing decisions of the covered articles. and even some of the reports contain insufficient information to allow a responsible analysis of the situation. we cannot continue to accept that member states of the european union continue to allow or turn a blind eye to the manufacture and international trade of products prohibited or subject to the regulation. first, member states should be explicitly urged to comply fully with their obligations as set out in the regulation and to submit in a timely manner annual public reports on their activity, providing detailed information allowing appropriate public scrutiny, including in those reports as a minimum the following: the number of export or import applications received, the items included and the countries of destination for each application, as well as the decisions taken in each case, the report on non-activity, where applicable. it would also be interesting to know more about what measures have been taken or are planned for cases of infringement of the regulation by commercial operators. because without the proper punishment there is obviously no compliance with the rules. finally, there are reasons for updating and introducing more regular procedures for the revision of the regulation itself and in particular of its annexes. this regulation, ladies and gentlemen, is proof that the protection of human rights may require the prohibition or restriction of trade in certain products. free trade cannot be applied to instruments of death or torture. let us therefore put it into practice seriously so that it can be the model it was intended to be for the union and also for other countries outside the european union.
human rights violations are unfortunately a global constant and as such it is crucial that the level of protection that human rights defenders should enjoy is increased and that the level of their working conditions is improved in order to achieve the desired results. these international actors i am talking about are the driving force behind the protection of human beings against any form of abuse to which they may be subjected on a daily basis; it is they who risk their lives and shape the initiatives and legislation that we produce here. and because the work they do is not confined to the territorial and geographical limits of the union but extends throughout the world, it is worth noting the decisive role that the creation of the european external action service and its 'central contact point' can play in strengthening the protection of these citizens. i therefore believe that by introducing incisive measures such as those proposed here, we can promote a current and positive link between transnational and cross-cutting dialogues and policies, and effectively contribute to the pioneering and always realistic vision that has guided eu action in the field of human rights.
in writing. the community has an obligation to protect biodiversity and species conservation by defending animal welfare and taking action against cruel cetacean killing. it is therefore essential that the eu should speak out in agadir against the abuse of hunting, particularly in the field of marketing, and especially hunting for scientific purposes. we know that quotas are being continually missed. we cannot therefore make compromises which allow countries to continue to have room to abuse the law. it is important that the eu maximises its presence in the iwc by speaking with one voice. whales are migratory species, which makes it all the more important to control the abuses committed by some which seriously compromise the interests of all. the preservation of whales and their habitats is now of enormous economic and social importance to many coastal communities in the development of activities around them, such as whale watching, with real impacts on the sustainability of these communities, such as in the azores, my home region, where the transition from the historical practice of commercial whaling to this new activity has taken place. in agadir, therefore, courageous positions are required.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it should be seen not as an alternative but as an important complement to the fisheries sector. in this respect, it should merit community attention and support and should be allocated sufficient financial resources to promote the activity and the social benefits it generates, in particular by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector. but because it is an important complement and not an alternative, the increase in financial support for aquaculture should not be at the expense of a reduction in the funds allocated to other sectors, in particular to fisheries under the european fisheries fund. we must not forget that this is an activity with significant environmental impacts, as already mentioned. these impacts should in each case be carefully assessed, weighed and, where appropriate, mitigated. priority should be given to more environmentally sustainable production methods such as organic aquaculture. in addition, strong, committed and persistent support is needed for research and development in the sector that enhances its environmental and economic sustainability and viability. the development of new techniques and methodologies that allow the cultivation of indigenous species at the expense of exotic species, diversifying production and reducing risks, combating diseases and promoting the health and welfare of cultivated specimens and consumers. to this end, among other possible instruments, it would be important to reorient the priorities of the research framework programme in order to allow adequate coverage of this area of research. two other issues: certification and quality labels. the procedures are often complex, time-consuming and, above all, expensive. if the purpose of certification is to protect the interests of producers and consumers, then, as an effective guarantee of transparency, quality and safety for consumers, certification should be carried out by public bodies, avoiding the profusion of marks and certificates and the confusion inherent in them. moreover, it should not represent an additional cost for producers. as regards imported products, international trade should be based on the complementarity of products and trade and not on competition between productions and producers. account should be taken of the need to comply with basic public health and food safety standards for imported products. all this requires the regulation of trade and the imposition of a brake on the total liberalization and deregulation that we have been witnessing.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, europe has a huge shortage of aquaculture products, is subject to increasing competition from third countries and has a huge untapped production potential. with this report, which i am sure will have broad support from the various groups, the european parliament is sending a clear message to the commission on the key issues for aquaculture which should be given special attention in the future common fisheries policy. i therefore congratulate my colleague, mr guido milana, on the important contribution his report has made to putting the subject of aquaculture on the european political agenda at a timely time. i therefore wholeheartedly support your report and urge the commission to take due account of its main recommendations, in particular the need to provide the future fisheries policy with a single and harmonised regulatory framework, to establish clear environmental criteria and requirements, to reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to the licensing of new fisheries, to step up monitoring to ensure compliance with environmental standards and product quality and to provide the appropriate financial incentives under the european fisheries fund to meet the high investment required by innovation and the high technology used by the sector.
i welcome the theme and timing of this report and warmly congratulate your rapporteur on the comprehensive work he has done. aquaculture must be taken as a european priority, given that: first, many fish stocks are overexploited and aquaculture is a significant complement to overcome the shortage of fish on the european market. secondly, the agri-food industry has grown by 7.6% over the last few decades worldwide, while in europe it has grown by only 0.5%. thirdly, the european union imports two thirds of what it consumes, but its aquaculture production accounts for only 2% of world production. fourth, aquaculture is a business worth over eur 3.5 billion, employing over 65 000 people. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the aquaculture sector. when the reform of the common fisheries policy is being discussed, it is important to rethink the future of aquaculture by giving it greater support and focusing on specific training of professionals, raising awareness among producers of a higher quality policy and production standards.
the report is a very good report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to support it. the majority voted in favour and there was a group that abstained. so your opinion is not the majority opinion of the commission, and i hope it is not the majority opinion of this parliament. the commissioner herself, mrs reding, in a debate we had here on tuesday evening, spoke in favour of this report, as all those who took part in the debate know, and said that it had very useful proposals for the new strategy for equality which is being prepared by the european commission. so i propose that we vote in favour.
in writing. − human rights defenders are committed to the realisation of one or another of the rights enshrined in the 1948 universal declaration of human rights and other international human rights instruments. in other words, its work aims at the protection of civil and political rights as well as the promotion, protection and realization of economic, social and cultural rights. the declaration recalls that it is primarily the responsibility of states to create an environment favourable to the activities of human rights defenders, allowing individuals, groups and associations to pursue political activities aimed at promoting and protecting human rights without restrictions other than those authorised under the european convention on human rights. only a holistic approach to human rights defenders can give greater effectiveness and credibility to european union policy. this approach should therefore include preventive and protective measures to enable them to act in a timely manner. the short and long-term needs of human rights defenders should be duly taken into account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents credible measures which can contribute to greater protection of human rights defenders. i would like to highlight the proposals which advocate the application of a gender perspective when addressing the problem of human rights defenders. unfortunately, women who defend human rights are still subject to specific risks.
in writing. − human rights defenders are particularly exposed and vulnerable to repressive actions by regimes seeking change and denouncing. the sad news is unfortunately endless, of the murder, mutilation and torture of people whose only crime was to give their lives, their commitment and their dedication to the cause of democracy and freedom. the european union has made the defence of human rights a central element of its foreign policy and must therefore consistently be at the forefront of the defence of those who, on the ground, are generously fighting for freer, fairer and safer societies. i would remind you of the case of those who were awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament and who are still deprived of basic freedoms such as the right to travel, the right to express themselves freely or even the right to live in freedom. europeans must not only recognise the importance of the values, rights and freedoms they enjoy but also seek to make a decisive contribution so that those who seek to bring their societies up to the same standards can do so with the greatest possible security.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report which calls on the european union and its member states to protect and support human rights defenders, who are essential actors in the protection and promotion of fundamental human rights, by their commitment, often at the risk of their own lives. the defence of fundamental rights, the promotion of human rights, the rule of law and democracy must be strongly supported by the eu. i would remind you that the treaty of lisbon, in particular articles 3 and 21, places the promotion and protection of human rights at the heart of the union's external action. i therefore consider it necessary that the promotion of human rights as a fundamental value and objective of the union's external policy should be duly reflected in the european external action service. the promotion, protection and security of human rights defenders should be considered as a priority issue in the european union's relations with third countries. i would also stress the importance of freedom of expression and the role of the media as the driving force behind the action of human rights defenders.
in writing. − the various citizens and ngos concerned with the defence of human rights also often have to be protected against certain abuses by the authorities of certain countries. the lisbon treaty is also very clear about the need to strengthen human rights concerns in the union's external action. it is therefore necessary to develop new mechanisms for the protection of human rights defenders and to implement the european union guidelines on human rights defenders.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected. i would stress the need to ensure that there are different means and media for information and that supervisory services are coordinated at european level in order to strengthen investor protection.
in writing. - in the recent past, there have been several cases of lack of transparency in relation to public offerings of securities. consumers were often uninformed and uninformed about the type and quality of securities in which they were investing their savings, often their life savings. this directive requires the operators of these markets to provide more transparency in information by harmonising transparency requirements so that in future investors of all types can make their savings choices in a safer and more informed way, in order to avoid unnecessary losses of important savings for their holders, which are often one of the sources of income for families and the elderly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, considering that the sustainability of resources is essential, to which a good documentation process can make an important contribution. also in the case of bluefin tuna, in view of the developments from 1974 to 2009, the latest developments recorded at the iccat meeting in recife are a key point which should be fully incorporated into community law. the high monetary value of this type of catch justifies the high controls, but it is necessary to note the complexity of the documentation programme: the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a legal basis for the application of the rules on the protection of the marine environment. factors such as the depletion of bluefin tuna, the extremely high prices paid for the fish (whether caught legally or illegally) and the difficulties in controlling fishing activities and trade make the measures currently in place insufficient for sustainable fishing. the commission is therefore asked to provide the appropriate community regulatory framework as a matter of the utmost urgency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna (thunnus thynnus) because it provides for measures which will help to stop overfishing of fishery resources and improve the monitoring of stocks of this species.
in writing. - portugal is the third country with the largest quota for bluefin tuna, with some 80 portuguese vessels fishing for tuna, a fish which is also a staple in the portuguese diet. it is therefore essential for our country that this species be preserved, not only because the economic livelihood of countless households depends on it, but also because it is an essential fish for the food of the populations. therefore, when the rapporteur recalls the possibility of including bluefin tuna in the annex to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), which would prevent trade in it, i cannot fail to stress again, as i have done in the past, the importance of ensuring at the same time adequate protection for wild species at risk without, however, calling into question or condemning to extinction activities that ensure the economic and social viability of various communities.
in writing. - i welcome the approval of the bluefin tuna catch documentation programme which prohibits the landing, transhipment, caging, harvesting, internal trade, import, export or re-export of bluefin tuna which is not accompanied by a duly completed and validated catch document. the new regulation establishes a european bluefin tuna catch documentation programme to support the implementation of conservation and management measures approved by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the document incorporates the provisions of the iccat programme to identify the origin of all specimens of this species. the programme also aims to reduce illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing for bluefin tuna, which has contributed to the near-extinction of bluefin tuna stocks.
in writing. − the eu must be very active, demanding and exemplary in relation to the state of fish stocks. this is because the figures currently presented for various species are worrying. countries like japan continue to show a lack of interest in the decline of some marine species, making it very difficult to conserve them. i therefore consider it essential that this catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna be approved in order to reduce illegal fishing and to prohibit landing, transhipment, caging, harvesting, internal trade, import, export or re-export of bluefin tuna which is not accompanied by a properly completed and validated catch document. the sustainability of the planet is at stake, through the preservation of its resources, fauna and flora, which should deserve increasing attention from the eu legislator.
in writing. - this report concerns the transposition into community law of an iccat catch document programme. on the basis of the iccat meetings held in recife, a number of measures were adopted, which are the subject of this report, namely: - general obligation to harvest caged fish in the year of capture or before the start of the fishing season with trawl nets with retention of the following year (exceptions are allowed); - prohibition on the use of chartered fishing vessels; - addition of a new annex with detailed instructions on the issuing, completion and validation of the documentation programme. good quality bluefin tuna has a high commercial value, which is why operators have made little effort to evade controls, often in breach of the law. this report is intended to avoid this kind of situation as much as possible and therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. the conservation of bluefin tuna stocks is an issue which the epp group, to which i belong, has always defended, given the alarming threat of depletion of this species of fish. the aim of the parliament's report, which i support today, is to find a balance between the growing environmental concerns about the near disappearance of bluefin tuna and the economic and social importance of the european union's fishing industry by incorporating into community rules the conservation and management measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. these measures include a new complex documentation programme which must accompany the tuna consignment throughout the chain of control and the impossibility of using chartered fishing vessels. it would be desirable that such measures be applied in an effective manner and proportionate to the objective of preserving the species in question, so as not to compromise the economic and social viability of the various coastal communities in the union, especially those where the degree of dependence on fishing activity is much higher, as is the case in portugal and its outermost regions - the azores and madeira.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the recent evaluation results of these countries do not justify the maintenance of the current obstacles to the movement of eu citizens within their own territory. the council should decide to abolish the frontiers as soon as possible in order to put an end to the discrimination which the nationals of these member states continue to suffer.
in writing. - i share the rapporteur's view that bulgaria and romania should inform the council and the european parliament of the follow-up to the recommendations made in the evaluation and monitoring reports which are yet to be implemented. only effective compliance with all parts of the schengen acquis will allow for the effective abolition of internal border controls with those member states.
in writing. − this draft council decision on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system in the republic of bulgaria and romania constitutes a first step towards the abolition of controls at the eu's internal borders with bulgaria and romania. the abolition of borders will be the subject of a separate council decision at a later stage, following further assessments. i support the rapporteur's position and in particular the view that the european parliament, and in particular the members of the libe committee, should have access to the evaluation reports and all other relevant information on the implementation of any recommendations made, before issuing a reasoned and reasoned opinion. i agree with the need for the european parliament to be informed, as the council is, of the follow-up given by bulgaria and romania to the shortcomings identified by the experts in the context of data protection assessments. i also support the rapporteur on the need to establish a simple, effective, efficient and transparent evaluation mechanism, which would complement the current schengen evaluation and make it possible to preserve the schengen area as an area of free movement.
in writing. − the accession of new countries to the schengen information system is essential to achieve a europe without borders. these two countries have been subject to a number of evaluation procedures, in particular as regards data protection, the schengen information system, air, land and sea borders, police cooperation and visa policy. despite improving conditions, an important step has been taken towards the abolition of internal border controls with bulgaria and romania.
in writing. - consider it important that the council and the member states be asked to accept that eurostat be given the responsibility for carrying out unannounced inspections in the member states to verify statistical data; - consider that, in the light of the case of greece, the commission's proposal represents the minimum necessary, stressing that the obligations to transmit information should be applied in all member states and that such information should include details of any previous extra-territorial activities; - consider that member states should put an end to the use of non-equity debt structures of any kind; - agree with the request to the commission to propose binding legal measures to oblige member states to put an end to the use of non-equity debt structures of any kind; - consider it very important that attention has been drawn to the tendency of member states to keep certain liabilities off their balance sheets, in particular with regard to future payments for public sector pensions and long-term contracts with the private sector for the lease or provision of public facilities (...) ((short statement pursuant to rule 170 (1))
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it essential that the council should strengthen the role and independence of eurostat; because i consider it important that member states provide eurostat with data on public finances on the basis of a standardised and internationally accepted accounting method; and because i consider it relevant to implement the european statistical code of practice, which strengthens the independence, integrity and accountability of the national statistical institutes and of eurostat, with the aim of promoting the application of best statistical principles, methods and practices by all producers of european statistics in order to optimise their quality.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's statistical authorities.
in writing. − the quality and accuracy of the statistics submitted by the member states of the european union are essential if problems such as those recently experienced are to be avoided. i therefore consider it essential that greater transparency, coordination between the member states and the commission (eurostat), with greater attribution and reinforcement of the commission's powers, including supervisory powers to the member states, be put into practice.
in writing. - the credibility of public accounts is essential. the only way to prevent deficits from slipping is to have a good mechanism for monitoring deficits and public accounts. the aim must be to prevent such a situation so that sanctions are not necessary. no one should be afraid of preventive and corrective inspections. there should be uniform concepts in the definition of what counts as a deficit so as to avoid budgetary disruption. i agree that the use of off-balance sheet debt structures of any kind should be avoided. liabilities should be clear, and in particular those that are often left out of member states' balance sheets, such as future payments for public sector pensions and long-term contracts with the private sector for the rental or provision of public facilities. i therefore agree that member states should provide eurostat with data on public finances on the basis of an internationally accepted standard accounting method. i consider it important to implement the european statistical code of practice, which strengthens the independence, integrity and accountability of the national statistical institutes and eurostat with the aim of optimising their quality.
in writing. − the quality and reliability of statistical data on the economic performance of eu countries are of paramount importance for the assessment of the real condition of member states' economies. the greek statistics, which according to various reports were distorted and did not reflect the reality of the economy, were an important warning to take measures to prevent such situations in the future. the strengthening of eurostat's powers and its technical and human resources is therefore very important if the eu is not to face in the future a situation where statistical data are misused by the member states.
in writing. - to agree with the principle that the current economic and financial crisis and future economic proposals must not jeopardise the achievements in gender equality and that the recession must not be used, as is already the case in some member states, as an excuse to reduce gender equality measures; - to consider it unacceptable that the pay gap between men and women persists and is at risk of being exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis. it also agreed with the call on the european institutions and the member states to set clear objectives and to propose binding measures to combat pay disparities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that equal treatment between women and men is one of the objectives of the european union and therefore one of the fundamental principles of any political response to the economic and financial crisis and the transition to the post-crisis period; because i consider it essential that the commission, the council and the member states take the necessary measures to mainstream the gender perspective in all eu policies and that they review existing legislation to ensure that equality between men and women is properly implemented and to allow for positive discrimination measures to be adopted wherever necessary; and because i agree with the call on the european institutions, the member states and local and regional authorities to take concrete measures, including through legislation, to promote the balance between men and women in positions of responsibility in local administrations and in business and political life, including in the boards of public and regional institutions, and european and national administrations, which should set the example; calls, therefore, for binding targets to be set to ensure equal representation of men and women.
in writing. − while i am a supporter of the principle of equality and the need to close the gender gap, particularly in employment, i cannot fail to stress that the current financial crisis affects men and women equally and that measures to combat the crisis must be taken globally, ensuring that states, businesses and families can best cope with this period of austerity. i do not, however, fail to recognise that states must endeavour, not only in legislation but in practice, to eliminate the differences which still exist between men and women in the labour market by establishing equal pay for equal work, equal conditions for access to management positions and by legislating to enable women to reconcile family life with their occupation in an appropriate way so that the option of starting a family does not become an excessive burden on their career.
in writing. - in the current context of the global economic crisis, which has aggravated social problems, the risk of gender discrimination is a real threat to the consolidation of a developed, fair and equitable europe. gender discrimination is a structural problem that persists in the developed world and in europe, with serious consequences for equal opportunities and economic and social stability. i understand that the irreplaceable and indispensable role of women in the family and social context is not properly recognised, valued or protected. the situation of women's greater vulnerability is even more evident in the unacceptable discrimination in pay and in access to and advancement in employment, whether in the private sector, in the public service or even in politics. the european union must take a firm stand for equal opportunities based on the promotion of professional ability and merit, irrespective of gender or colour. however, i regret that this noble cause is being used to promote various issues which are fundamentally divergent, because of their ethical and moral contextualisation, as is the case with abortion and the incentives given by the state and the regional authorities in this area. so i abstained.
in writing. − the policy of equality, aiming at equal treatment regardless of gender, is an increasingly welcomed priority in legislation. however, this should not invalidate a fundamental principle which allows the choice of persons to be based on competence and this, nor should it be allowed that under strictly administrative imposition more qualified persons, also regardless of gender, are overlooked in relation to less qualified persons. it should also be rejected whenever, under a disguised pretext, be it the crisis or any other, they intend to surreptitiously introduce changes of substance in fracturing matters which are not assumed with the justified visibility, in particular in the field of abortion policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because:- i consider it essential that a committee be set up to start discussing the financial perspective after 2013, in particular the political priorities for the mff after 2013, in order to calculate the financial resources that the union needs to achieve its objectives and pursue its policies for the period starting on 1 january 2014. to define the duration of the next mff. to propose, in accordance with the objectives and priorities defined, a framework for the future mff, indicating the main areas of union activity. to specify the relationship between the reform of the system of financing the eu budget and a review of expenditure in order to provide the committee on budgets with a sound basis for the negotiations on the new mff.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider equality between men and women to be an essential requirement for the full enjoyment of fundamental human rights. it is also worth noting that this is a basic principle of the european union and it is high time that real efforts were made to end the existing discrimination between the sexes. moreover, gender equality is a key instrument for economic development and social cohesion, with an unquestionable impact on productivity and economic growth, bringing numerous social and economic benefits. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women in the workforce. thus, actions of this scale are extremely useful as they have a positive impact on the full inclusion of women in the labour market and in society in general. it is in this sense that i consider this report to be an indispensable contribution to the fight against discrimination against women and to overcoming the serious obstacles to gender equality. i believe this will have a major impact in breaking down age-old gender barriers, creating a more just and equal society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the sharing of family and domestic responsibilities between men and women is an indispensable condition for the promotion and achievement of equality between women and men. it is time to move from intentions to concrete policies and actions that can contribute to the eradication of violence against women and to the promotion of women's rights by combating gender stereotypes and all forms of discrimination in society and in the family.
in writing. - as a humanist and personalist, i have some difficulty in dealing with women's rights alone, without understanding them in the general framework of human rights. this does not mean, however, that i am not a strong supporter of women's rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and that the rights of men and women are respected, and that the rights of women are respected. i would stress once again, however, that without denying women the right to control their sexual and reproductive rights, no vote in this parliament can in any circumstances be intended to confer on them a right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. this matter should remain the exclusive sphere of decision of the states.
in writing. - much has been done in the area of gender equality, but much more remains to be done. the evaluation of the roadmap for equality between men and women is positive. the policy of equality, aiming at equal treatment regardless of gender, is an increasingly welcomed priority in legislation. however, this should not invalidate a fundamental principle which allows the choice of persons to be based on competence and this, nor should it be allowed that under strictly administrative imposition more qualified persons, also regardless of gender, are overlooked in relation to less qualified persons. it should also be rejected whenever, under a disguised pretext, be it the crisis or any other, they intend to surreptitiously introduce changes of substance in fracturing matters which are not assumed with the justified visibility, in particular in the field of abortion policy.
in writing. - as i said earlier, this commission is crucial for the elaboration of the concrete priorities for the next community budget and for the definition and adoption of the regulation on the multiannual financial framework, especially in the current context of crisis. i believe that my colleagues who have been appointed to this commission today will establish a framework of concrete and real measures which will make it possible, on the basis of the lessons of the recent past, to plan measures to prevent and deal with similar situations in the future.
in writing. - the concern of policymakers with the clarity of business involving sport is not new, nor is the suspicion that many sports agents will allegedly engage in reprehensible or even unlawful conduct that calls into question the truth of sport, the health and safety of their representatives and the truth in commercial transactions. the links of some of these agents to organised crime networks have also been noted. this worrying situation deserves all the attention the european union can give it, urging a separation of the wheat from the chaff which reinforces the demand, transparency and rigour required for the exercise of such an activity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on players' agents in sport for supporting the call for the regulation of the activity of sports agents, if necessary in the form of a directive. i am particularly concerned about the findings of the study on sports agents in the european union, commissioned by the commission, with regard to criminal activities associated with sports activities, where these are affected by organised crime linked to the activities of sports agents. i believe that this situation is harmful to the image of sport, its integrity and, ultimately, its role in society. i would particularly stress the specific vulnerability of young sportsmen and the risk of becoming victims of human trafficking and the specific responsibility of sportsmen's and club agents in this situation. i therefore support the idea of rules on the activities of sports agents which bring about harmonization and transparency. i think it would be useful to introduce a licensing system for agents throughout the eu and a register of agents.
in writing. − the football industry is booming and increasingly involving significant amounts of money. the players' agents are one of the main players in this industry and are of capital importance, as they are the ones responsible for negotiating with the clubs when the players' transactions are made. on the other hand, football players and other players in more media-oriented sports are being recruited at an increasingly young age and, if they are not well advised, their careers may be at risk. this is why we need to have well-defined rules so that the activities of agents do not lead to less correct practices which may harm players, especially the youngest ones.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this joint motion for a resolution. good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are fundamental to the stability, security and prosperity of the whole of europe. aware of their shared responsibilities in promoting stability, the eu and russia have been intensifying negotiations and seeking new cooperation partnerships that go beyond mere economic cooperation, also integrating the areas of rule of law or respect for human rights. a good example of this enhanced cooperation, which i would like to highlight, is the signing of the joint declaration on gaza by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, and the russian foreign minister, sergei lavrov. i also regard as very positive the progress that russia has made in order to be able to meet the objective of wto accession, in particular the abandonment of protectionist measures, which is an indispensable requirement and must continue. finally, i would like to stress the need to involve russia in the eu baltic strategy, specifically in improving maritime safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
in writing. − russia is still far from being a country in which human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law are fully guaranteed. it is therefore unrealistic to try to circumvent this by claiming that there is a full understanding between the two blocs on the issues of rights, freedoms and guarantees. that said, i cannot but welcome the eu-russia summit and hope that russia will develop into the credible, reliable, democratic and secure partner that the european union so badly needs. i therefore believe that the union will have every advantage in supporting russia's efforts to democratize and in strengthening the concrete partnerships with that state which will bring it closer to the other europeans with whom it shares its history and culture. if the european institutions and the member states contribute to making possible peter the great's dream of a russia fully integrated into the concert of nations and, in particular, into europe of which it is also a part, they will have done a great service to world stability.
in writing. − the eu is committed to negotiating with russia a new framework agreement to further develop eu-russia relations. russia is an important partner of the eu. i advocate cooperation to address common challenges through a balanced and results-oriented approach based on democracy and the rule of law. they must share not only economic and commercial interests but also the objective of close cooperation at world level and at the level of the common neighbours on the basis of international law. the eu and russia should therefore intensify their negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement which is broad, comprehensive and legally binding. this agreement must go beyond economic cooperation and also include the areas of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human and fundamental rights. i support the objective of russia's accession to the wto, to help russia attract more foreign investment and diversify its economy. the establishment of the customs union with belarus and kazakhstan by russia is likely to create additional obstacles to the accession of the russian federation to the wto.
in writing. − eu-russia relations are very important for both sides, but need to be broadened and intensified beyond economic cooperation to include the areas of democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights. the conclusion of a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and russia is therefore of the utmost importance for the future development and intensification of cooperation between the two parties. the current economic and trade relations between the eu and russia are proof of the results of a common effort and commitment.
in writing. - i welcome the statement by the un secretary-general and the high commissioner for human rights calling for an immediate and independent international inquiry into this attack and violation of international law. it is essential that the israeli government does not oppose the conduct of this inquiry. calls on the hr/vp and the member states to take measures to ensure the sustainable opening of all crossing points to and from the gaza strip, with adequate international final control, in order to allow the free movement of humanitarian and commercial goods necessary for reconstruction and a self-sustaining economy, as well as the free flow of currency and people;
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a joint resolution as a whole. i think it is time for the european union to play a much more active and autonomous role in the search for a solution to the arab-israeli conflict. bearing in mind the centuries-old relations of some eu member states with the arab world, the unparalleled and committed support of europe in equipping the palestinian national authority with the means to become a viable and self-sustaining state, the unparalleled scale of humanitarian aid for the reconstruction of the palestinian areas affected and the traditional relations of friendship and partnership with israel, the eu is a credible partner and an irreplaceable agent. we are living through weeks of dangerous escalation of tension and violence in the middle east. each tragic event fosters more hatred and misunderstanding, fuels radicalism and inspires fundamentalism. with the lisbon treaty, the eu finally has the institutional basis to design an external relations and security and defence policy commensurate with its demographic size and economic importance. without arrogance, aware of the scale of the problem, without being naïve or masochistic, it is time for europe to take up this challenge!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the israeli military operation against the humanitarian fleet and the blockade of gaza by condemning the attack on the humanitarian fleet, which took place in international waters and constituted a violation of international law. i believe that israel must end the blockade of the gaza strip, which has resulted in a humanitarian crisis and growing radicalisation, increasing insecurity in the region.
in writing. - just as the deaths of human beings are always to be deplored, so too must the use of adjectives such as peaceful or humanitarian by supporters of terrorist organisations who refuse to accept peaceful coexistence in the region be condemned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also necessary to consider the attempt to break through a naval blockade, motivated by the violent seizure of power in gaza by hamas, as a hostile act, whatever name is given to it. apart from the need to support the weakest and most vulnerable among the palestinians, it must be acknowledged that hamas, which exploits and mobilizes them, continues not to recognize the state of israel, and that several of its most prominent militants have repeatedly called for its destruction. all of this reinforces the understanding that a conflict like the one in the middle east lacks smoothness of purpose, perseverance in action and generosity in forgiveness.
in writing. − the israeli military operation in international waters on 31 may 2010 against the humanitarian aid flotilla bound for gaza resulted in the death of nine civilians and the injury of 38 civilians and seven israeli soldiers. i offer my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims. for the full truth to be known, i call for an immediate and impartial international investigation into this attack. i believe that israel should immediately end the blockade of the gaza strip, which has resulted in a humanitarian catastrophe and a growing radicalization that is a source of insecurity for israel and the whole region. the eu's policy towards the middle east must have a decisive and coherent political role, alongside effective diplomatic instruments, in the pursuit of peace and security in this border region of strategic interest to the eu.
in writing. - we consider that this resolution has a clear message of condemnation of the attack on the humanitarian fleet carried out in international waters, in clear violation of international law. it is a step in the right direction with regard to the urgent need to end the blockade of the gaza strip, which is resulting in a humanitarian catastrophe for the palestinian people. we are still far from what is necessary in condemning and protesting against the criminal massacre perpetrated, at the behest of the israeli government, against the six vessels of the freedom fleet, which were carrying some 10 000 tonnes of basic necessities, humanitarian aid for a population imprisoned for years on end in its own territory, men, women and children who face a dramatic and calamitous humanitarian situation as a result of the brutality unleashed against them, which has turned gaza into a gigantic concentration camp. we must say enough once and for all. we must impose on israel respect for international law. the us and the eu must end their collusion with israel. we must put an end to the apartheid imposed by israel on the palestinian people and defend the right of the palestinian people to their own state within the 1967 borders.
in writing. the israeli-palestinian conflict is extremely complex and therefore requires careful analysis. while it is true that the loss of human life in this particular incident is unacceptable and worrisome, on the other hand the state of israel has the right to exist and its people to live in safety. israel has been the target of several terrorist attacks by radical movements, including hamas, and it is its right to act pre-emptively to prevent the supply of weapons and materials used in such terrorist attacks. of course, we cannot accept the way in which the vessel approached, completely unable to prevent the loss of human life, thereby exacerbating all the antagonistic impulses. and in this assessment my vote is justified.
in writing. − as well as publicly defending human rights, the european union must seek to prevent their violation by creating barriers to trade in goods which could be used to impose the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. this effort must be accompanied by the same commitment by the member states and the active attention of their respective civil societies in combating the multiple forms of torture and violence that threaten the freedom, health and dignity of every person. more attention to this market and more regulation of trade in these materials and more monitoring of their actual use are fully justified and deserve my support.
in writing. - unfortunately, torture is still practised in many countries. the convention against torture imposes on states a number of obligations, ranging from prevention of torture, investigation of incidents, prosecution of perpetrators and compensation for victims. notwithstanding the above, torture continues to be practiced worldwide, with the use of a wide range of police and security equipment. this is why measures must be taken to prevent such equipment from being freely distributed and to allow it to be sold and acquired by individuals who may then use it for torture and ill-treatment.
in writing. - regrettably, the people of north korea continue to be subject to human rights violations by the dprk government. i call on the government of the people's republic of china to exercise its responsibilities as a permanent member of the united nations security council. i also call on the government of the people's republic of china to use all its influence to restart the negotiating process. i call on the international community to keep up the pressure on the dprk government to put an end to the human rights violations committed against the people of north korea.
in writing. the sinking of the south korean corvette cheonan by north korea is a matter of grave concern and deserves the unanimous condemnation of the international community. the european union must condemn this aggression by the dictatorial north korean regime, which only ostensibly respects the 38th parallel and which has been fuelling and stoking a deafening conflict with the democratic, prosperous and developed country of south korea. the european union must take the lead in protest and make official and unofficial efforts to help the north korean people break free from the totalitarian yoke that oppresses them, in particular by supporting human rights defenders in that country.
in writing. - i deeply regret the tragic loss of life aboard the south korean corvette cheonan and express my condolences to the government of the republic of korea, the bereaved families and the korean people. i note that the investigation by the international joint civilian-military investigation team has produced clear and indisputable evidence that the cheonan was sunk as a result of an external underwater explosion caused by a torpedo manufactured in the democratic people's republic of korea (dprk), in line with the findings of an independent evaluation by the neutral nations oversight committee. i reiterate the condemnation of the attack expressed by the high representative/vice-president and commend the restraint shown by the republic of korea. i urge the commission to maintain the current humanitarian aid programmes and to keep the channels of communication with the dprk open, as these aid programmes have a direct influence on the living conditions of the people of north korea.
in writing. the incident with the south korean corvette cheonan is in every way reprehensible. this situation is causing great instability on the korean peninsula and measures must be taken to ensure that a new incident of this nature with loss of human life does not happen again. although denying involvement, the dprk is the prime suspect in setting off this situation in the face of evidence, including the wreckage found at sea of a north korean-made torpedo. there must be a condemnation of this incident by the entire international community, in particular china and russia, which have not yet condemned this situation in a clear and unequivocal way. it is only right that the problem be referred to the united nations security council so that it can take steps to prevent similar incidents in the future.
in writing. - although it has not been broadcast on our television news, the situation in bosnia-herzegovina is far from completely stabilised, with a worsening of ethnic political tensions that is not expected to lead to a new armed conflict. this deep and latent antagonism has a negative impact on the country's poor governance and poor articulation of priority government policies and it is now clear that bosnia and herzegovina has a long and difficult road ahead if it is to join the eu. unfortunately, the term 'balkanization' still means division, struggle for the same space and conflict of difficult resolution, and the european union should be more attentive to the possibility of a new outbreak of disputes between the communities that make up the country and seek to prevent them by effective intervention with the main political and social actors.
in writing. the eu has reiterated its pledge of accession for the western balkan countries, including bosnia and herzegovina. however, the primary responsibility for accession lies with these countries and depends on their ability and determination to meet the copenhagen criteria. the political climate in bosnia and herzegovina is unstable and there is no common vision shared by all political forces. there has been no progress in the process of inter-ethnic reconciliation and in the functioning of state structures. i would remind you that joining the eu means accepting the values and rules on which the eu is founded, namely respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, solidarity, tolerance, democracy, the rule of law and, in particular, respect for the independence of the judiciary. freedom and independence of the media, both public and private, are fundamental democratic requirements. i therefore urge the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina to promote the development of independent media. i also condemn the attacks on journalists and urge the competent authorities to take appropriate measures to avoid similar situations in the future.
in writing. − the eu enlargement process must always be considered and any new accession must always respect common reference factors of the eu countries. the countries of the western balkans are in the forefront of future accessions, among them bosnia and herzegovina. however, the primary responsibility for accession lies with these countries, in particular in their capacity and determination to meet the copenhagen criteria. in this respect, bosnia and herzegovina has not made much progress towards stabilisation and development. the climate of political instability and the lack of a common vision shared by all political forces should be emphasized in particular, and there is now an increasing use of incendiary language, which undermines the process of inter-ethnic reconciliation and the functioning of state structures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - in view of the physical reality of airspace (which is global and shared), i believe that greater cooperation between the european union and the united states on air transport regulation is both appropriate and necessary. issues such as passenger safety are cross-cutting and i therefore support the creation of joint eu-us air traffic management programmes such as sesar and next gen, as well as the need for the us to share information with the eu in the context of the airline blacklist. finally, as i said, since airspace is global and shared, and since the ultimate objective of the eu-us air transport agreement is the full opening up of the market, i support parliament's position in calling for greater liberalisation of the air transport market by eliminating unbalanced discrimination and restrictions.
in writing. − the opening of eu-us aviation markets which together account for some 60% of world air traffic will benefit consumers on both sides of the atlantic, provide substantial economic advantages and create jobs. i welcome the cooperation between the eu and us authorities responsible for aviation safety, and reiterate the importance of the european blacklist of airlines that do not comply with the rules in force and the us system of monitoring airline standards. it is important that both sides share information on this issue. it is noted that the privacy of european and us citizens should be respected when passenger personal data is exchanged between the eu and the us, in accordance with the criteria required by the european parliament in its resolution of 5 may 2010. it therefore stresses the urgency of adopting international standards on data protection and privacy. i welcome the agreement to reduce noise and emissions from aircraft and the intention to increase technical cooperation between the eu and the us in the fields of climatology, research and technological development.
in writing. the eu-us air transport agreement is based on the liberalisation of this sector. the document states that the ultimate objective of the eu-us air transport agreement is the full opening of the market without any restrictions on either side. by establishing such agreements and by highlighting the interest of large economic groups in the liberalisation of the single market, the eu is overriding the existing bilateral agreements defined by each member state and is taking the sector out of the public sphere and putting it into the private domain. as regards safety, and while we always advocate that a high level of safety should be provided in air transport services, we are seriously concerned when safety, cost-minimisation and liberalisation are combined, where profit and the concentration of wealth are the main considerations. we therefore believe that air transport, as an important sector in mobility within and outside the member states, should be a public service provided by public undertakings in each country, guaranteeing the quality and safety of the services provided to citizens. we voted against all of this.
in writing. the eu and the us have signed a new agreement on the use of the eu's financial instruments. to this end, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as by all the entities concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. - at the same session as the vote on the european parliament and council regulation on a european rail network for competitive freight transport, the question of the implementation of the directives of the first railway package, which fell far short of the initial objectives, arose. as rail is a priority, it is urgent to take appropriate measures to ensure the proper implementation of the first railway package, in particular with regard to the progressive opening and liberalisation of markets, while respecting competition rules.
in writing. - i note that the vast majority of the 22 member states have not correctly implemented the three directives of the first railway package, which has prevented the share of rail transport in transport in general from increasing. i consider that the independence of the infrastructure manager is a precondition for fair, transparent and non-discriminatory treatment of all operators. rules are needed to ensure the independence of infrastructure managers, especially when they are part of a railway holding company that is also engaged in rail transport activities. the level of investment in maintaining railway infrastructure is insufficient in a large number of member states, leading in several cases to a deterioration in the quality of existing infrastructure. it is proposed that the commission should review the first railway package by september 2010, addressing as a priority issues such as the independence of infrastructure managers and the lack of resources and powers of regulatory bodies. it is also expected to propose appropriate pricing principles for access to infrastructure to stimulate public and private investment in the railway sector. the liberalisation of the railway market should not undermine the quality of the rail transport service while safeguarding public service obligations.
in writing. the resolution deplores the delay in implementing the three directives which make up the so-called first railway package by several member states, considering that this delay prevents fair competition in the railway market. the real aim of this package is thus once again demonstrated: to open up rail transport, including freight, to competition and private interests as a first step towards full liberalisation of the sector at eu level. it is up to the states to decide in which areas they are to exercise their social functions through public services, as well as to decide on the way in which these public services are to be organised. this is a sovereign choice of the people, which must be respected. we therefore reject any form of undemocratic imposition of measures contrary to the interests of the people - such as that which this resolution clearly embodies. liberalisation is the cause and not the solution of the main problems in the railway sector, notably the quality and accessibility of the service and workers' rights. the persisting policies of dismantling and atrophying the public transport sector must be stopped and reversed, with a view to its surrender to the profit-making logic of large private interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
in writing. − the effective implementation of the first railway package is essential for the future creation of a european rail network. addressing problems such as the independence of infrastructure managers and the lack of resources and powers of regulatory bodies needs to be a priority, as well as proposing appropriate principles for charging for access to infrastructure. the creation of rail corridors that allow a rapid and efficient connection from one national network to another will therefore improve the conditions for using the infrastructure. a more competitive rail transport system than the current one brings not only economic but also environmental benefits hence my vote.
in writing. − the first railway package adopted in 2001 contained elements which, in my view, can contribute to the integration of european rail, both passenger and freight, and thus to exploiting synergies and deepening the completion of the internal market and territorial cohesion. however, the three directives in this package, which concerned the development of rail, the licensing of railway transport undertakings and the allocation of capacity and the application of infrastructure charges and which aimed to revitalize this means of transport, have not yet been transposed in most member states, notably in portugal. i therefore agree that a review of this first package by the european commission makes sense, particularly as regards the more problematic issues such as the independence of infrastructure managers, the legal framework for regulatory bodies and the way in which access to infrastructure is charged. any development in the rail transport sector should safeguard the main aspects underlying the provision of the public service, namely its quality and safety and its access by citizens and businesses at affordable prices. good management of these infrastructures and their interoperability will be key to the creation of a truly integrated european rail network.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the floods in central europe, in particular in poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary. as one of the signatories of the proposal, i would like to reiterate the need for the european council to resume work on the revision of the european union solidarity fund with a view to creating a more robust and flexible instrument to respond effectively to the new challenges posed by climate change.
in writing. − the floods in central europe have re-established the agency's focus on the adequacy of the european union solidarity fund to the specific needs of member states affected by natural or man-made disasters, dramatic circumstances that are occurring at a worryingly increasing rate and that call for increased attention from governments to water and soil policies. as i have said before, i believe that the structure and availability of the fund should be improved and its mobilisation evaluated frequently in order to make this mechanism more suitable to help mitigate the effects felt by the member states and to promote the reconstruction of the most affected areas in a flexible, prompt and appropriate manner.
in writing. - i express my solidarity with the regions affected by the disaster, my deepest condolences to the families of the victims and note the serious economic impact on the region. in these situations the european union solidarity fund should be fast and flexible. i therefore regret that the council has blocked a proposal to this effect, which parliament had approved by an overwhelming majority at first reading in may 2006. i also support the need for member states to comply with the requirements of the flood directive and to review planning, land use policies and best practices in the light of the increased flood risks caused by the way soils, habitats and drainage are managed and to strengthen flood control capacity and drainage infrastructure in order to limit damage caused by heavy rainfall. member states and regions affected by the natural disaster should pay particular attention to the sustainability of their reconstruction plans.
in writing. - the need to provide support as soon as possible to the areas affected by the economic and social consequences of this natural disaster; - the need to revise the solidarity fund regulation, adapting the eligibility criteria to needs not currently covered and allowing for more flexible and timely mobilisation; - the need to pay greater attention to disaster prevention. in the latter area, cooperation should be strengthened, both at regional and eu level, based on complementarity of actions and the principle of solidarity between member states. in particular, priority eu support to member states should cover, inter alia, preventive measures relating to the correction of risk-inducing situations: riverbed renaturalisation; recovery and protection of watersheds, wetlands and associated ecosystems; increasing the flow capacity of bridges and waterways; protection/remodelling of inhabited areas, including urban areas, particularly vulnerable to certain types of disasters; and maintenance and safety monitoring of existing major infrastructure.
in writing. - the eu, as a space of solidarity between its member states, could not remain indifferent to the catastrophes that struck several countries in the form of floods, notably poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary. the rapid mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is therefore very important in order to enable the countries affected by this disaster to use the aid they need quickly to restore the infrastructure to working order, thereby minimising the suffering of the flood-affected populations.
in writing. the document adopted by the european parliament today expresses the european parliament's solidarity with the people of the member states who have been hit by the floods and who have been severely affected by these natural disasters. i support the initiative to include in a joint document of the various political families represented in the european parliament the need to help the communities affected by this catastrophe. i am aware of the reality of the destruction caused by the effects of a natural disaster and i am aware of the various risks and the serious economic, social and human difficulties which result for the population. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance to call for more rapid support at european level, which can only be achieved by making the conditions for allocating the solidarity fund more flexible. as the document states, an urgent debate on this matter is needed. only then can we really speak of european solidarity. for the reasons i have mentioned, the resolution adopted has my clear and unequivocal vote in favour.
in writing. − whereas effective justice, capable of responding in a timely and appropriate manner to citizens' problems, requires properly trained operators (magistrates, lawyers and other legal professionals); i welcome with enthusiasm the announcement by the european commission that it will develop an action plan on european training for all legal professions in 2011 and will launch erasmus-style pilot projects, exchange programmes for judicial authorities and legal practitioners in 2010-2012. i shall be following the development of this proposal with interest.
in writing. − adequate training of magistrates and the creation of a european judicial culture accelerate judicial proceedings, particularly in cross-border cases. we will thus make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market, both for businesses and for citizens. although member states have the primary responsibility for training magistrates, it is essential to have eu funding for these training courses for magistrates to promote a european judicial culture. i believe that the proposed pilot projects should not be restricted to erasmus-style exchange programmes for members of the judiciary. the commission, in cooperation with the member states, should make proposals for the establishment of a union-wide network of accredited legal training bodies to provide familiarization courses in national, comparative and european law for judges on a stable and continuous basis.
in writing. − judicial training, which aims to train the judicial magistrates of all member states, is very important in order to achieve a european judicial culture based on mutual understanding. the training of judges is also an obligation of each member state, which must, despite the current crisis, make an effort to continue to invest in the training of these legal professionals.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament, a member of the epp, but also as a law professor, lawyer and former secretary of state for justice, i am very interested in this initiative to create a european judicial culture, with a view to promoting effective and rapid justice, capable of responding in a timely manner to the problems of citizens. this is only done with properly trained magistrates, lawyers and other legal professionals. it is with conviction that i am voting in favour of and will follow closely and with interest the action plan for european training for all legal professions by 2011, the erasmus-style pilot projects, and the exchange programmes for judicial authorities and legal practitioners foreseen for 2010-12 which the european commission has just announced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it urgently necessary to adopt a strategy for aquaculture in the eu, since the current situation, characterised by a series of community standards of different origins and sources which vary in all the member states, makes it impossible to achieve objectives which contribute to the creation of an innovative economic sector with a high technological potential, capable of promoting regional development in a number of maritime, coastal and island regions, as well as in the eu as a whole. i would like to recall the potential of research and the use of advanced technologies to promote employment and retraining for traditional fishermen and as a catalyst for related economic activities. i would also remind you that the development of such a strategy requires a single regulatory framework and, at the same time, appropriate certification and labelling. it is also necessary to strengthen this sector through the necessary investments - without prejudicing other sectors and taking into account the various environmental impacts - because this, as a complementary activity for our coastal communities, can also contribute to combating the fisheries deficit that normally exists in our food balance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the milana report for advocating the need for sustainability in the development of an efficient, economically viable and environmentally friendly european aquaculture in the medium and long term.
in writing. - according to the report, the european aquaculture sector comprises more than 16 500 enterprises, with an overall annual turnover of over eur 3.5 billion and directly and indirectly employing some 64 000 people. that is why it is an unavoidable sector which cannot continue to be the poor relation of fisheries policy without adequate, harmonized legislation to encourage investment. so when we discuss the future of the common fisheries policy (cfp), it is crucial to look at the potential of aquaculture to provide high quality fish with a lower environmental impact, as this can reduce the capture at sea of species at risk.
in writing. − the european aquaculture sector comprises more than 16 500 companies, with an overall annual turnover of over eur 3.5 billion and directly and indirectly employing some 64 000 people. european production in this sector, although it doubled between 1981 and 2001, when it reached 1.3 million tonnes, remained virtually unchanged (+0.5%) until 2008, while world production grew at very high rates (+7.6% per year) during the same period. there is currently no specific and harmonised regulatory framework for the aquaculture sector at community level. on the contrary, it is governed by a series of community rules of various origins (environment, public health, etc.) and by national rules which vary considerably from one member state to another, which is a source not only of disorientation for operators in the sector but also of discriminatory situations and problems of market distortion. i therefore support a proposal for a regulation which consolidates in a single text all the community provisions governing the aquaculture sector, which will result in a clear, stable legislative framework and legal certainty. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − we share the view expressed in the report that aquaculture is a sector with a strong potential to contribute to the economic and social development of numerous regions, including coastal and rural areas, as well as to promote local production and employment. we welcome the measures of simplification and de-bureaucratization which the member states are adopting at the legislative level to frame and regulate the activity. the environmental impacts of aquaculture are now one of the main constraints on the development of the activity. in particular in saltwater aquaculture, the amount of animal protein used in the feed of the farmed specimens is still disproportionately high in relation to the yield obtained. in many cases, problems persist in the discharge of effluents with high pollutant loads into the natural environment. the report recognises these and other problems, and rightly points to the importance of investment in research and development in overcoming them by improving the sustainability and environmental and economic viability of the activity. despite the fair criticism of the 'proliferation of private certification', we believe that more should have been done in this area, clearly advocating the importance of a public system of certification of the food and environmental quality of aquaculture products. as is the need for greater regulation of trade.
in writing. − the aquaculture sector has not had a harmonious development strategy across the eu. it is an important sector for the eu's economic development as well as for ensuring the food supply of quality fishery products, thus also helping to reduce the pressure on wild species, many of which are in danger of extinction. this industry is also important in terms of food security, economic activities and employment, especially in rural and coastal areas.
in writing. − although the eu is the world's largest market for aquaculture products, there is still no harmonised eu legislation on the subject, which has led to regulatory distortions and disorientation among market operators. aquaculture products are part of the diet of european citizens and this report highlights the importance and urgency of a new european strategy to cope with the expansion and potential of the sector. in madeira this is a key issue and, when the economic and social development plan for the autonomous region of madeira for 2007-2013 was drawn up, the fisheries sector, and in particular aquaculture, was identified as one of the thematic priorities, highlighting the need, among others, to promote sustainable management of resources with a view to their conservation and exploitation, while also seeking to promote greater transparency of the markets for aquaculture products. it should be noted that only with adequate funding, in particular through the european fisheries fund, and the use of new technologies and experimental research will it be possible to achieve a structured and sustainable development of the sector, which is environmentally balanced and promotes competitiveness among operators, thus giving greater quality assurance to consumers.
i have listened to you very carefully as you maintain that this parliament is not a parliament but a 'pseudo-parliament'. i'd like to know, then, what you're doing here and which taxpayers are paying your salary.
firstly, as regards the fees applicable to banks and financial transactions, i should say to you that i would prefer fewer words and much more negotiating capacity, since we have already seen what the outcome will be at the g20: we're going to be pioneers, no consequences. secondly, economic policies. how can this council say that it wants to reduce poverty in europe and at the same time in the world, when everywhere, in all national budgets, there are policies of drastic reduction of public investment and policies of drastic reduction of social spending? that is really the problem. how can we sustain the need for sustainable growth if, in the meantime, all national policies are geared to the same objective, namely to reduce wages and increase the most unfair taxes, in particular vat? that's why we have a problem with the council. the council is like the vatican is to the portuguese writer, josé saramago: he's orthodox, he doesn't forget anything and he doesn't learn anything. i have therefore to ask you one last question, which has to do with the obsession with national budgets and the pre-budgetary views of national budgets. now there is even another expression, used by mr van rompuy, namely the idea of preventive sanctions in the field of national budgetary policy. what's this all about? what is it that you're really trying to tell us? this is nothing but a symphony of vuvuzelas, a dreadful music.
in writing. in addition to what we already knew from the written document of the council conclusions of 17 june, what has been referred to here by the president of the council shows that they want to take advantage of the crisis to make a leap forward in federalism, as an instrument in the service of their objectives of strengthening capitalism in this imperialist vision of the european union. for some, as you said, the treaty of lisbon is no longer enough and they want it revised. but for others, that review may be postponed. what they want to do now is to use all the powers of the lisbon treaty to centralize and concentrate economic power even more, through the so-called 'economic governance', in the service of the major interests of the european powers, especially germany. the measures to regulate financial matters are being postponed and the question of ending tax havens is being put off. what is clear is that only the struggles of the workers and the peoples, supported by the progressive and revolutionary forces, can make the necessary break with these policies and start another policy committed to the workers, to the improvement of social conditions, production and peace.
mr president, transport is a fundamental element of economic development, indispensable to territorial cohesion and social progress and to raising the level of welfare of the population. because of its strategic importance and its clear public interest, the sector is, and must remain, one of the areas in which the state exercises its social function through public services. this is what is required by a modern and efficient transport system, which is able to meet the major challenges facing the sector, such as increasing safety and reducing its environmental impact. persistent policies of disinvestment and dismantling of the public transport sector with a view to privatisation must be corrected and reversed. the rights of workers in this sector must be respected and valued. investment is needed in research and development and in essential public infrastructure to ensure that the sector fully meets social needs. for all this, in several member states, as in portugal, workers and the population have been waging a firm and determined struggle in defence of the public transport service and against its privatization, which we wish to welcome and to join.
mr president, according to eurostat, unemployment has risen again in the eu. in portugal it reached a new high, and this situation is common to the countries most affected by the crisis. the blind and drastic cut in public investment, combined with the lack of liquidity in the markets, could lead to a catastrophic situation in terms of unemployment. pragmatic measures are urgently needed. these are generally cohesion countries which have eu funds at their disposal, but the implementation of these funds is extremely low due to complexity, delays and lack of flexibility. we are approaching the period of the mid-term review of the structural funds. i call on the commission and the member states to carry out a thorough review of these programmes, directing them towards productive investment. i also call for the simplification of procedures so that these funds can be applied in an agile and flexible way. i reiterate the importance of smes and support for entrepreneurship and the first jobs of young people. i remember that if, for example, qren helped every portuguese sme to employ a worker, the problem of unemployment would be virtually solved in portugal.
mr president, as this report shows, the situation of young people is very serious, with increasing difficulties in finding employment. youth unemployment is already above 21% on average in the european union, but in some countries it is much higher, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for young people who have completed their studies to find a job with rights, a job with a living wage. in general, what they are offered is a traineeship, often unpaid, thus using young people and their need for a job to exploit them, not even paying them for the traineeship, and when they are given a job, it is precarious, poorly paid and without rights. this is an unacceptable situation and therefore there must be policies to prevent this exploitation from continuing, including by creating jobs for young people, but also by guaranteeing their rights.
mr president, the insistence on flexibility and so-called flexicurity has led to the proliferation of precarious and atypical work. instead of being the exception, it has become the generality of the hiring of women and young people since the emphasis began to be placed on labour flexibility and so-called flexicurity. this situation, together with the increase in unemployment, is one of the most visible features of the crisis of capitalism we are experiencing and is particularly responsible for the growth of workers in poverty, whose wages are so low that they cannot guarantee them a decent living. by the end of 2008, there were 19 million in the european union. today, with the growth of unemployment, there will certainly be many more millions living in poverty, even though they are working. we must therefore break with the neoliberal policies which have weakened labour rights, including flexicurity, which always forgets safety. it's time to respect the dignity of those who work and produce wealth.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me congratulate and thank all those involved in this report, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment - 55 votes in favour, 3 against and no abstentions - and i thank them for the work and the involvement that made this report possible. biological waste accounts for about 30% of municipal solid waste. that's over 100 million tons that are produced annually. we must not forget that waste is responsible for more than 109 million tonnes of greenhouse gases. they are actually the fourth largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, after energy, industry and agriculture. it is appropriate that bio-waste be regarded as a resource. the potential of bio-waste should be fully exploited. unfortunately, there is still a large amount of waste being landfilled, which has an environmental cost. we have a scattered legislation. we have legislation which is in various pieces of legislation, which needs to be harmonised. legislation that requires and imposes clarity other clarity and more simplicity. we therefore advocate a specific directive, a directive which provides legal certainty and security for public and private investors, while respecting local specificities and the principle of subsidiarity. however, this directive is essential. in this report we are obviously defending the waste hierarchy and, in particular, prevention, which must be seen in a broad sense. the best waste is the one that never has a chance to become waste. so the public's choices, for example, to avoid gardens that have a lot of greenery or that need a lot of maintenance and that give a lot of waste, are seen in a different way, to avoid that there is this amount of waste that is produced. even in food, packaging with expiry dates that, because of the food they contain, are often thrown away. awareness, moving towards a recycling society is key to even creating more jobs. for every 10 000 tonnes of waste recycled, 250 jobs can be created, whereas landfilling for the same amount of waste can only create 10 jobs. waste is important for the fight against climate change. they are important in combating soil degradation through a high-quality compound, and we advocate that this compound should also have standards in terms of the european union and also for the production of bioenergy. the emphasis is on the question of the result, for example in the compound, in order to encourage scientific research, in order to encourage innovation. we have basically defended strategy 2020 with sustainable development, smart development and inclusive development. this is a report which has ambition but also realism, because, for example, in the case of selective collection, we want it to be compulsory, but only if it is possible from a local point of view, provided it is possible from an economic and environmental point of view. that is why i said that we are for ambition but also for realism.
in writing. i give sufficient credit to the work carried out by the spanish presidency in view of the particularly difficult circumstances which marked the first half of this year. on the one hand, the spanish presidency coincided with the transition period to the new institutional architecture resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. there are now new actors such as the president of the council and the high representative for external action. in this new institutional context, i would also stress the strengthening of the european parliament's powers and competences. the presidency has also faced a period of serious financial and social crisis in europe. he faced the attack on the euro, the greek crisis, and he struggled with an alarming growth in unemployment and deficit in his own country. it has contributed to the creation of the €750 billion financial stabilisation mechanism and to the advancement of financial market regulation. at the same time, the spanish presidency has never lost sight of the implementation of european political priorities, especially in the environmental field. in this connection i would like to highlight the cooperation of the spanish presidency in the preparation and debate of my report on bio-waste, which the presidency unconditionally supported and which was adopted by a large majority in the plenary this week.
in writing. unfortunately, the spanish presidency has not sought to find answers to the serious problems facing the european union. it was during this period that unacceptable measures were taken, which prove the lack of solidarity. moreover, what they have done with regard to the sovereign debt is very serious. in fact, it waited for germany's decisions and let the problem drag on, with serious consequences for greece, portugal and spain itself. it also proves who, after all, holds the power in the european union. the directory of the great powers is increasingly reduced to germany and, at most, includes france. then the late solutions were bad. instead of solidarity between the richest countries, of strengthening the community budget for solidarity measures and to ensure real economic and social cohesion, what they have done is to resort to the imf and to loans to greece at higher interest rates than those which the ecb makes for private banks. to make matters worse, they have imposed unacceptable conditions which make workers and the most deprived people pay the costs of the crisis that the eu itself helped create, only to facilitate the gains of economic and financial groups. the adoption of the so-called strategy 2020 is in line with this.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, dear friends, what are we talking about? we're talking about 90 million financial messages a month, which is over a billion financial messages a year. financial messages originating in europe, within europe or between europe and the rest of the world. this is what we have for months or years referred to in this parliament as bulk data, bulk data transfer. this parliament thought it had killed the bulk data transfer for the first time in february when it rejected the agreement. for the second time in may, with a resolution that said clearly: the transfer of data in bulk is illegal. and now the bulk data transfer is here. that is the essence of the agreement, the essence of the agreement does not change and everyone in this house knows that very well. so there are reasons to continue to vote against it. this deal has a lot of weaknesses. when we are told that it gives us the right to judicial review, to transparency, my dear ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that this is an executive agreement with the white house. it doesn't change american law, it doesn't pass through congress. european citizens not resident in the united states of america are discriminated against by such an agreement. it is not true that many of the fine words in the agreement have any practical application, and we know that. and then they present us with a strong point, which is the role of europol. we must be clear: europol has no role in data protection. we have a european data protection agency which the european commission and the european council never wanted to put in this agreement. europol is an agency that should be monitored because it benefits from this agreement. it receives police leads, but it is not an agency that filters and serves to protect the data of european citizens. we know this is wrong, we know this is illegal and we know this is unconstitutional. and yesterday the committee on civil liberties and human rights did parliament a disservice by refusing to ask parliament's legal service for an opinion on europol's role here, which we know is very wrong. the left group will ask the legal service for this opinion, because, my dear friends, and thanks to my colleague alexander alvaro, who has worked very hard and who has worked in transparency and in cooperation with all the rapporteurs from all the groups, we can choose to know or not to know. we have a duty as legislators to foresee the legal implications of this agreement, and the left group will vote against this agreement decisively.
mr president, i would like to congratulate commissioner cecilia malmström, rapporteur alexander alvaro and all those who have worked on this dossier. the european parliament's voice has been heard, negotiations have been held, this agreement is different and better than the one we refused in february. that said, i want to make it clear that i have doubts about article 20. its wording seems to call into question the effectiveness of the rights which are provided for in the whole agreement, and i maintain the same disagreement on the choice of europol, which is neither an independent judicial authority nor a data protection authority. seriously, i don't think we can turn this deal down. it's different from february's, but i also don't feel comfortable approving it, so i'm going to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation, which i fully support. i would like to stress, however, that more than its content, i consider this recommendation to be a good example of the interaction and the fluidity that should exist between the council and the european parliament in the case of the procedure for a favourable opinion, provided for in rule 81 of the rules of procedure and originally introduced into the community acquis by the single european act. the original document was submitted by the council on 5 february this year and, after five months, the opinion procedure in the european parliament has now been completed. i know that in the future not all subjects will be able to be the subject of such a broad consensus as this. it is nevertheless a good example.
in writing. - called upon to give its opinion under rules 81 and 90 of its rules of procedure on the authorization of member states which have not yet done so to accede to the paris convention on international exhibitions, the committee on international trade was overwhelmingly in favour of the authorization, with only two abstentions at the time of the final vote on the proposal. in fact, because of its simplicity and relative consensus, the authorization in question is not only irreparable but also contributes to maintaining equality between member states. it is a different question whether this question has parliamentary dignity and whether it deserves a vote in plenary.
in writing. − in order to promote greater uniformity of procedures within the european union and the promotion of cultural activities that contribute to the strengthening of innovation and the education of citizens, i support the council's initiative to create conditions for member states which have not yet acceded to the paris convention to do so, while respecting the exclusive competences of the european union guaranteed by the treaty of lisbon. it is absolutely essential that the customs arrangements for exempting goods from import duties and taxes on temporary admission and re-export of goods for international exhibitions of a duration of between three weeks and three months be appropriate.
in writing. - international exhibitions are a privileged means for countries to present their culture, their economy and their most traditional products to other peoples. the products presented at these exhibitions have a special customs regime which is regulated by the paris convention. the convention now has 24 member states. this council decision makes it possible for member states which have not yet acceded to the convention to do so, while respecting the exclusive competences of the european union guaranteed by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the barcelona convention reflects a common concern among all the countries sharing the mediterranean coastal zones for an integrated and sustainable management of those natural resources. however, the eu should not limit itself to its role as a mere contracting party, but should take a proactive stance in pursuing the objectives of the iczm protocol, such as the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of ecosystems, and in effectively complying with the regulations regarding economic activities in coastal zones. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the implementation of the directive.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the protocol on integrated coastal zone management in the mediterranean which contains the basic principles for better environmental protection in these zones, including the sustainable use of resources, the preservation of coastal ecosystems, as well as specific provisions relating to certain economic activities that may affect coastal zones, such as construction, tourism, fishing, aquaculture or maritime activities.
in writing. the protocol on integrated coastal zone management (gizcm protocol) aims to reverse the trend of worsening environmental conditions in the mediterranean sea over the last few decades, which have been denounced by environmentalists and men of culture such as the spanish writer arturo pérez-reverte. over-exploitation of fisheries resources, warming, pollution, the disappearance of native fauna and flora and the emergence of species from elsewhere all add to the urgency of an integrated and coordinated response among as many mediterranean coastal states as possible. the european union has a particularly important role to play in this joint effort. it is necessary to ensure that the mediterranean, the cradle of western civilization, remains balanced not only ecologically and landscapistically but also economically, and that it is able to be bequeathed to future generations in such terms that they can recognize the mark of the past in it, enjoy it in the present and preserve it for the future.
in writing. − the european union is a contracting party to the barcelona convention (convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean) as are all the coastal member states of the mediterranean. in accordance with article 4 (3) of the convention, the parties shall promote integrated coastal zone management, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological and landscape interest and the rational use of natural resources. the gizcm protocol sets out the general objectives and principles of integrated coastal zone management, such as the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of coastal ecosystems. it also contains specific provisions on economic activities in coastal zones, such as construction, tourism, fisheries, aquaculture and maritime activities, as well as on instruments for integrated coastal zone management (such as environmental assessments, national strategies and monitoring mechanisms). the iczm protocol has already been approved on behalf of the european community. the commission now proposes, by means of the abovementioned proposal for a council decision, that the council should proceed to conclude the protocol on behalf of the eu. the council must now obtain the consent of the european parliament before adopting the decision on the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. − the protocol on integrated coastal zone management in the mediterranean (iczm protocol) represents an important effort by the european union to promote integrated coastal zone management, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological and landscape interest and the rational use of natural resources. the economic activities of the region, such as construction, tourism, fishing, aquaculture and marine activities, should be re-thought, re-evaluated and studied in depth so as not to jeopardise the sustainability of the region, which is essential for future generations. i believe, however, that for such an initiative to have short-term effects, full mutual assistance by the mediterranean coastal states is necessary.
in writing. − the 2005 prüm treaty sets out a legal framework aimed at developing cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, crossborder crime and illegal immigration. in 2007, it was decided to transpose it into the eu legal framework. it is in the framework of the prüm decision and its implementation that the exchange of dna data, dactyloscopic data and vehicle registration data, as well as the exchange of information on major events with a cross-border impact and the provision of information for the prevention of terrorist acts take place. the aim of this agreement is to enable iceland and norway to join the eu member states in such exchanges, thus strengthening cooperation between the authorities responsible for preventing and combating criminal offences. as iceland and norway are schengen associated countries, it is important that the eu supports their efforts to prevent and combat terrorism and all forms of cross-border crime, while ensuring full respect for fundamental rights, including the protection of personal data, and respect for the principles of proportionality and necessity.
in writing. - i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement between the european union and iceland and norway. i see the deepening of crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and crime, as a positive element for all parties. close cooperation between the eu and its neighbours in matters such as the fight against organised crime, terrorism, information sharing and police and judicial cooperation allows for a greater sense of security for european citizens not only within the union but also in a wider sense in europe.
in writing. - terrorism is one of the greatest threats to the life of contemporary societies and therefore deserves not only the utmost condemnation but also the greatest possible combined effort to eradicate it. it is now clear that individual states are not capable of dealing with an increasingly global threat and that this can only be mitigated if they join forces and share information efficiently and quickly and coordinate effectively in terms of resources and personnel. in this context, i believe it is right to welcome the european union's agreement with iceland and norway, neighbours with whom we share the same values, in particular the same attachment to democracy and the rule of law and the rejection of blind and extremist violence against defenceless citizens, and i hope that its implementation will allow for a stronger and more appropriate collective response to the challenges that terrorism and crossborder crime pose to judicial systems and police forces.
in writing. − the text of the agreement between the european union and iceland and norway on the implementation of certain provisions of council decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and crossborder crime, and of council decision 2008/616/jha on the implementation of decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and crossborder crime, and its annex (05060/2009) is hereby approved. i have no objections to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − to make the european area increasingly a place of security and well-being, we need to continue our efforts to cooperate with all the countries of europe outside the eu area. this is the context of this agreement between the eu, iceland and norway, which will allow for greater cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. − frontex, set up in 2005, has as its main objective to coordinate operational cooperation between member states in the management of external borders. all countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis should participate in this agency, the modalities of which should be specified in separate agreements between the eu and those countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it was nevertheless decided to include liechtenstein in this agreement for reasons of effectiveness, even if it will only apply after the conclusion of this protocol. i therefore support the adoption of this agreement, which lays down the rights and obligations to ensure effective participation of switzerland and liechtenstein in frontex, in particular with regard to voting rights, their financial contribution, data protection and confidentiality issues, etc.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this proposal, which seeks the association of the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein with the frontex agency. as provided for in the frontex agency regulation, the states associated with the implementation and development of the schengen acquis participate in the activities of the frontex agency. however, the modalities of their participation should be defined by agreements with the union. the conclusion, as soon as possible, of this participation agreement between the eu and these two states will therefore be very positive for all parties involved. as a vital instrument of the european strategy to combat illegal immigration, frontex should be able to have the means and conditions to ensure effective coordination of operational cooperation between member states in the management of the external borders of the union. the conclusion of this agreement will thus enable the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein to contribute to closer cooperation on external border control and surveillance between their competent administrative services and those of the eu.
in writing. − the participation of the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein in the frontex agency increases the means at their disposal and the capacity for joint response to the phenomenon of illegal immigration involving states on the fringes of the union which suffer from similar problems to those experienced internally in combating illegal immigration. i welcome the willingness shown by the two countries to cooperate, i hope that it will be established effectively and bear fruit, and i hope that this experience of working together will be extended to other areas as well.
in writing. − the frontex agency was set up in 2004 under articles 62 (2) (a) and 66 of the ec treaty and started its work on 1 may 2005. the agency was conceived as an important instrument of the common european strategy to combat illegal immigration. the purpose of the proposal for a council decision, which is subject to the approval procedure, is to sign and conclude, on behalf of the union, the agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein, of the other part, on the modalities of the participation of those states in the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, known as frontex. i welcome the conclusion of this agreement, which will enable these two states to contribute to closer cooperation in the field of external border control and surveillance. i hope that the member states will make every effort to complete the necessary ratification procedures as soon as possible with a view to the association of the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein with the frontex agency.
in writing. - the frontex agency was set up as an important instrument of the common european strategy to combat illegal immigration. its main role is to provide operational coordination between member states in the management of the external borders. the extension of this cooperation to other european countries is very important for the fight against illegal immigration, as it provides the agency with more material and human resources to meet its objectives.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament, and this independence cannot be called into question. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. as regards the amendments tabled by parliament, i would like to stress that the member states should provide the commission (eurostat) with all statistical and budgetary information on the basis of a standardised and internationally accepted accounting method and that the figures for the planned budget deficit and the level of government debt should be those set for the current year by the member states. those figures shall correspond to the latest official forecasts, based on the latest budgetary decisions and on economic developments and prospects, as well as on monthly and quarterly results. such values shall be determined as far in advance as possible of the notification deadline.
in writing. - the good quality, reliability and accuracy of statistics is essential if, in a crisis context such as the one we are currently experiencing, situations such as those in greece are not to be repeated. i therefore consider it crucial that the political commitments made in this area are implemented efficiently and rigorously and that the statistical data are brought into line with existing community legislation, for example by submitting national safety declarations to the commission (eurostat). the commission (eurostat) should also be given more powers of inquiry, allowing it to carry out unannounced inspections of national statistical offices and to have access to all accounting and budgetary information, thus enabling it to assess the state of national public finances. the imposition of financial and non-financial penalties on statistics not presented in accordance with community legislation should also be considered.
in writing. - this report is another step in the attempt to monitor the internal life of countries, now through statistics. they propose, for example, that monitoring visits be made to a member state whose statistical information is under scrutiny. they want the commission, through eurostat, to have the right to access the accounts of public bodies at central and state administration, local government and social security levels, including the provision of detailed basic accounting information, relevant statistical surveys and questionnaires and other related information, including transactions of an extra-patrimonial nature, although they add that this should be done in compliance with legislation on data protection and statistical confidentiality. the commission should also consider drawing up sanctions under the stability and growth pact for the submission of distorted macroeconomic statistics by member states. in practice, if these proposals are accepted by the commission and the council, the commission (eurostat) will have access to all statistical and budgetary information required for the assessment of the quality of data in the national, regional and local accounts, inventories, excessive deficit procedure (edp) tables, accounts of extra-budgetary bodies, non-profit organisations and similar bodies, which are part of the general government sector in the national accounts.
in writing. − the quality and reliability of statistical data on the economic performance of eu countries are of paramount importance for the assessment of the real condition of member states' economies. the greek statistics, which according to various reports were distorted and did not reflect the reality of the economy, were an important warning to take measures to prevent such situations in the future. the strengthening of eurostat's powers and its technical and human resources is therefore very important if the eu is not to face in the future a situation where statistical data are misused by the member states. the strengthening of eurostat's inspections, with the possibility of carrying them out without prior notice, will be very important for the future reliability of statistical data on the economy of the member states.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal was very positive and has been improved by the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament, namely:- the acquisition by the commission (eurostat) of a staff with appropriate training and the greatest possible degree of independence;- the promotion of harmonisation of the collection of statistical data;- the standardisation of statistical and budgetary information provided by the member states;- the application of sanctions under the stability and growth pact in respect of the submission of distorted macroeconomic statistics by the member states. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the european strategy for the baltic sea region is the first attempt to create a common development strategy for a macro-region. the strategy aims to solve common problems and coordinate actions to achieve shared objectives. there are two major areas of interest for this region: the environment and scientific development. this is a complex but interesting strategy which could be developed for other regions of europe.
in writing. as i have already said, the baltic sea, because of the particularly serious environmental problems it faces, must be one of the european union's priorities. the fact that the baltic sea is today one of the main channels of communication and exchange between member states reminds us of the role the baltic sea has played in other historical periods and highlights the need for the union and its member states to recognise the existence of regions which, by virtue of their identity and the development problems and challenges they face, have the advantage of being seen by them as functionally integrated realities. the baltic sea and the regions of the states bordering it have the potential to be considered and operate as a pilot macro-region. i hope that the conclusions drawn from the practical implementation of the european union's strategy for the baltic will make it possible to assess more accurately and appropriately the future role of the macro-regions in european cohesion policy.
in writing. − the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world, and with the emergence of the concept of macro-regions, where common development objectives or problems are focused, and the geographical characteristics and conditions, it makes perfect sense to try to create a common integrated development strategy for this macro-region. common resources in the baltic sea region are shared by many countries, resulting in considerable interdependence, thus justifying a comprehensive strategy for the region. the baltic sea strategy is the first and so far only attempt to create a common integrated development strategy for a macro-region and should be considered as a pilot project and an example within the european union.
in writing. − this report advocates the importance of developing strategies for the european union's macro-regions, which are seen as a group of territories grouped around common objectives and challenges, and it focuses, as a first initiative, on the baltic sea region strategy. i support the document because i consider it essential to have an integrated territorial plan which promotes a strategy based on the common interests of the territories of the regions concerned, which should count on the contribution of all european policies in pursuing its objectives and be guided by the objectives of european regional policy, in particular the objective of cohesion. the green paper on territorial cohesion points in this direction by highlighting the importance of intervening in the various regions of the european union on the basis of their functional needs. it is hoped that this initiative will be the first of many capable of providing the various european macro-regions with an appropriate legislative and programmatic framework, based on the idea of european territorial cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the contribution of the european union's regional policy to the plan for the revival of the european economy to be essential. regional policy must be seen as a long-term development policy of the european union, which advocates the recovery of competitiveness and employment in the member states. the fight against the economic and financial crisis also involves the acceleration and simplification of cohesion policy programmes, which i consider to be of the utmost importance for a greater adjustment of budgetary policy and necessary to combat the current difficult situation, and which, through this acceleration of programmes, will contribute to the strengthening of the union, its member states and its regions. it is essential to pursue the objective of greater competitiveness, sustainability and flexibility for these programmes in the context of a globalised world. i also believe it is essential to continue to give special attention to objective ii regions by supporting the economic and social conversion of these areas, highlighting all their potential and promoting the coordination of all the means and instruments to achieve the promotion of growth and employment.
in writing. - this report focuses on the contribution of eu regional policy to resolving the economic crisis. the structural funds are essential for investment in areas that contribute to improved productivity and economic growth. in a time of budgetary constraints, when there are cuts in public investment in the member states, the role of the structural funds is even more significant. these funds are also instrumental in financing actions aimed at preparing europe for the post-crisis period, such as actions to train europeans in new areas and new technologies.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the recently adopted eu 2020 strategy is structurally based on economic, social and territorial cohesion, a dynamic cohesion policy, and that the structural funds are indispensable instruments for achieving the objective of sustainable and inclusive growth in the member states, and in particular in the regions, i voted overall in favour of the proposals contained in this report. in the context of the economic and financial crisis in which the eu is currently experiencing, regional and cohesion policy and, in particular, objective 2 programmes are becoming increasingly important in the process of economic recovery, boosting competitiveness and job creation at regional and local level, providing essential support for public investment. i therefore regard the introduction of greater flexibility, which is vital, on the one hand, with the simplification of cohesion policy programmes, as very positive. on the other hand, greater flexibility in the allocation of union funds so that regions can fully benefit from support for infrastructure investment, support for their business community, which is mainly made up of smes, or stimulation of research and modernisation in the industrial or agricultural sectors.
in writing. - in view of the importance of the principle of solidarity, i consider it essential that community funds for cohesion policy be effectively implemented. as i have had the opportunity to express on other occasions, the efficient allocation of european union cohesion funds is crucial to reduce the imbalances observed in the various regions of the eu-27, to help to mitigate imbalances, and to foster european competitiveness. it is essential to help the less-favoured areas develop, to emphasise the efficient allocation of funds for innovation and technology, education and to implement measures that stimulate in particular employment and competitiveness. the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy should also be a guiding element in this respect.
in writing. − regional cohesion is a fundamental objective of european integration and is gaining particular emphasis in this phase of a severe and prolonged economic crisis, with a strong impact on the level of unemployment, especially in the most disadvantaged regions. with the 2006 reform, objective 2 now concerns the strengthening of regional competitiveness and employment in a total of 168 regions in 19 member states, representing 314 million inhabitants, with an overall funding for 2007-2013 of eur 54.7 billion (just under 16% of the total funds). some 74% of this amount is earmarked for improving knowledge and innovation (33.7%) and for more and better jobs (40%). i am in favour of investing in the real economy and supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, giving priority to innovation, competitiveness and employment. this is a guideline that is part of and reinforces the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to this end, i stress the urgency for the member states and their regions to make use of the european funds at their disposal, an issue which is gaining in importance in this economic and financial crisis, as i have stressed both here in the european parliament and in several speeches in portugal.
in writing. the report under discussion is not another attempt to disguise the real responsibility for the economic and social crisis we are going through. and with it, yet another attempt to put the sole responsibility for the supposed overcoming of this crisis on the shoulders of the workers and the populations. the document strongly supports the key priorities of the eu 2020 strategy and calls for further policy reinforcement to deepen the eu 2020 strategy by building on the european single market. we recall that these priorities are identical to those already known in the reformed lisbon strategy, the same ones that justified and promoted the processes of privatisation of public services, the liberalisation of dismissals and the degradation of working conditions, the increase in unemployment and the promotion of social regression - in other words, the structural causes of the systemic crisis of capitalism we are facing. the structural funds, or any other financial instrument of regional policy which has cohesion as its central objective, should be geared towards genuine commitment to economic development and social progress, territorial cohesion and the reduction of regional disparities. they should not be used perversely to finance policies whose consequences are clearly contrary to the stated objectives and which themselves are the seeds of new and deeper future crises.
in writing. − the good response to the financial and economic crisis has demonstrated the importance of eu regional policy. in the specific case of objective 2, which covers more than 300 million inhabitants in the most disadvantaged regions, but who are nevertheless also suffering the consequences of this serious crisis. this is the time to strengthen the instruments of objective 2 in order to achieve the key priorities of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. - this regi report takes a realistic and extremely up-to-date view of the situation facing the member states and their regions in the context of the economic and financial crisis in europe. as a native of madeira, an outermost region classified as a regional competitiveness and employment objective region, the issue here is profoundly familiar and relevant to me, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report presented. objective 2 of the community's cohesion policy aims to empower regions facing serious unemployment problems and structural difficulties which are further exacerbated by the crisis we are experiencing. in order to fully achieve regional policy and the objectives of strategy 2020, it is necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions through the development of labour and economic policies. only then will europe be able to achieve real smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. for these reasons i support the rapporteur's view that there should be more flexibility in the allocation of community funds and aid so that the regions concerned can benefit from modernisation and support which translates into real development and which, in time, can lead to a more sustainable economy.
in writing. - this regulation aims to establish a common framework of rights for passengers travelling by bus and coach, guaranteeing a level of protection comparable to that already established for other modes of transport, such as trains and airplanes. it is important that comparable conditions be achieved in road passenger transport between carriers in the various member states and between the different modes of transport, which should include liability in the event of death or damage, compensation and immediate assistance in the event of cancellation or delay, without forgetting the possibility for the passenger to lodge a complaint if he considers that his rights have not been respected. i regret the lack of ambition in the council's proposal, not only because it considerably reduces the scope of this regulation, but also because it weakens the level of protection for road passengers travelling in the eu. i have no doubt that it is important to preserve the economic viability of enterprises and to take account of the specific nature of the industry in this sector, which is largely made up of small and mediumsized enterprises. however, it is equally important to ensure a balance between the economic aspect and the aspect relating to the protection of passenger rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on passenger rights in bus and coach transport, as it introduces a strengthening of the rights of citizens using these means of transport, in particular compensation for passengers in the event of delay, cancellation or accidents and assistance for disabled people.
in writing. − whatever the means of transport used, passengers have the right to a quality and safe service, which is why i welcome the intention to introduce harmonised standards on passenger rights in bus transport throughout the eu. i also believe that passengers' rights should be generally the same, whatever the means of transport used, except where this is incompatible with the characteristics of the transport in question. it seems reasonable to me that states should defend their right to exempt certain operators of scheduled urban, suburban and regional transport services, including services for the implementation of the regulation, provided that they are bound by rules of national law or contractual obligations to respect the rights of passengers. we must not forget that in europe there are not only large hauliers but also small and medium-sized hauliers, which we will have to look at with particular care. finally, i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their conciliation work with the council and hope that it will be possible to reach agreement on the final version of this regulation as soon as possible.
in writing. the european union should make it a strategic and priority line of action to create the conditions for promoting and enhancing the use of public transport. it is a key issue for the success of a europe committed to combating climate change and urban pollution, to preferring renewable energy sources and to reducing dependence on fossil energy sources. in this context, i would like to stress the contribution of this report to ensuring not only an efficient network of connections but also conditions of comfort, quality of service, safety and assistance, seeking to reconcile the rights of citizens, in particular the concerns about the rights of disabled people and people with reduced mobility, with the need to take account of the viability of transport companies, especially in this period of severe economic crisis. the preservation of the economic viability of undertakings, taking into account the specificities of the bus transport industry, must therefore be reconciled with a high level of protection for passengers, comparable to that already existing for other modes of transport.
in writing. - the amendments proposed at second reading generally guarantee an improvement in the rights of passengers in public transport by road, which we value. we note that the amendments adopted further improve the previous version by ensuring, inter alia: - that passengers should be able to benefit from liability rules comparable to those applicable to other modes of transport in the event of an accident resulting in death or bodily injury; - that carriers must be liable for loss of or damage to passengers' baggage on terms comparable to those applicable to other modes of transport; - that the member states should promote the use of public transport and introduce interoperable and intermodal information systems to provide timetables and prices by issuing multimodal tickets in order to optimise the use and interoperability of the various modes of transport; these services must be accessible to persons with disabilities; - that bus transport companies will be liable for loss or damage resulting from the death or bodily injury of passengers caused by accidents related to the provision of transport services.
in writing. - the lack of regulation on passenger rights in bus and coach transport makes it necessary to adopt this legislative resolution, as passengers' rights must always be safeguarded, regardless of the transport they use. it is also very important to adapt transport infrastructure, new vehicles and refurbishments of used vehicles to the needs of passengers with reduced mobility.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. the position outlined by the council on the proposed regulation has emptied the substance of both the commission's 2008 proposal and the position adopted by parliament at first reading, which would then have greatly limited the scope of the report and would have exempted most bus service providers from the scope of the future regulation. i would like to see a full legal framework for adequate protection against the loss of luggage, delays and cancellations of services, and above all for the liability of companies in the event of death and damage. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments tabled by mr cancian to ensure that the passengers concerned, in particular the disabled and those with reduced mobility, have access to a suitable means of transport and are provided with an adequate level of protection, always bearing in mind the difficult economic environment in which we live and the need for the companies providing this type of service to survive.
in writing. − the full liberalisation of the passenger shipping market can only be achieved when consumers (and not just companies) can make the most of its benefits. it is essential to give consumers effective rights to ensure that liberalisation allows for real choices. we must not forget that 22 of the 27 member states of the eu are coastal countries, and it is therefore urgent to ensure safety and security for the users of these means of transport, so that we can harmonise the protection measures for these passengers with those for other means of transport. it should be remembered that in some matters the regulation of seafarers' rights was scattered and differed from state to state. the new set of rules will provide european citizens with immediate solutions in the event of delays, cancellations or denied boarding, information obligations for passengers and means of complaint and redress. i particularly welcome the provisions introduced by the european parliament for disabled passengers and passengers with reduced mobility, particularly as regards accessibility, non-discrimination and assistance. by enshrining a general principle of not refusing to transport such persons, the fight against social exclusion is ensured and a union of persons without internal borders is achieved.
in writing. - following the success of the community initiatives on the regulation of passenger rights in air and rail transport, we now have a proposal for the regulation of passenger rights in maritime and inland waterway transport. as i said in connection with the recommendation we have just voted on, whatever the means of transport used, they have the right to a quality and safe service, which is why i think it is good that harmonized standards on passenger rights are being introduced. i also believe that passengers' rights should be generally the same, whatever the means of transport used, except where this is incompatible with the characteristics of the transport in question.
in writing. - in defence of equal treatment and criteria for users of different types of public transport, whether air, sea or land, i support this report, in order to ensure the protection of citizens' rights in extraordinary and exceptional situations that may arise in the use of maritime transport. the burden of proving that a vessel cannot carry out a transport operation because of exceptional circumstances or adverse weather conditions should clearly fall on the carrier. i would stress that safety conditions must not be neglected or put on the back burner. the complaints system shall be accessible and clear to passengers. i welcome the fact that the time limits for resolving complaints, delays in notification, replacement equipment and compensation have been strengthened from the passenger's point of view. combating exclusion is a priority for the eu. i therefore believe that the rights of disabled passengers and those with reduced mobility must be strongly guaranteed.
in writing. − the union must take care of the rights of passengers travelling by sea and inland waterways, so that they enjoy a high level of protection comparable to that already existing in other modes of transport. passengers with reduced mobility due to illness, age or any other factor should also be able to benefit from the same conditions as other users, which requires investment in terminals and ports.
in writing. the aim of this report is to provide passengers in maritime transport with a legal protection framework similar to that already in place for rail and air transport, with particular emphasis on the case of disabled passengers and those with reduced mobility. i am pleased to see that mention has been made again of natural disasters which, unfortunately, have become increasingly frequent in europe and which cause great damage and lead to potentially tragic situations, and which must therefore be taken into account in order to allow possible precautions to be taken and subsequent claims for assistance. i also think it is important to stress the need to ensure that information for passengers, especially foreigners, is provided in a clear way, particularly with regard to their rights in the event of delays and complaints. for these reasons i voted in favour of the amendments to the council's position.
in writing. − consumer rights must be protected. this legislation is a step in the right direction, giving more rights to passengers travelling by boat and bus. maritime passengers will have rights similar to those provided for by european legislation for air and rail passengers. for example, passengers will be entitled to compensation in the event of delay, cancellation or accidents and to assistance in the case of disabled passengers.
in writing. the effectiveness of the use of information and communication technologies in road transport is indisputable. however, it is found that intelligent transport systems (its) are used in a fragmented, inefficient way. it is urgent to define a legal framework, to harmonise the operation of the systems and to create an efficient cooperation mechanism between all the stakeholders in the tsi. i therefore support the adoption as soon as possible of the its directive in order to accelerate the implementation of these technologies in the road transport sector and at interfaces with other modes of transport. this new directive will make a significant contribution to improving environmental performance, energy efficiency, transport safety and the mobility of passengers and goods. the internal market is working properly!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on intelligent transport systems in the field of road transport and interfaces with other modes of transport, as these will make it possible to improve the safety and organisation of european transport systems, making them more efficient from an economic and environmental point of view.
in writing. - this proposal proposes a legal framework for the deployment of its in europe in the field of road transport and interfaces with other means (gps, automatic alarm system and traffic control instruments). the aim of this directive is to ensure greater interoperability of the transport system and to create an effective cooperation mechanism between all the parties concerned in the its. the four priority areas identified are: (i) better use of traffic routes and travel data; (ii) management of european transport corridors; (iii) road safety; and (iv) vehicle integration into transport infrastructure. all these objectives make road transport more efficient, safer, greener and ensure better interoperability with other means of transport, and are therefore conditions for the effective implementation of its systems. the agreement now reached with the council, and reflected in this recommendation, will, in the rapporteur's words, make it possible to make up for the delays in its applications and services and eliminate inefficiencies in transport, making it more efficient and safer and at the same time contributing to the objective of making transport cleaner.
in writing. − the establishment of a framework for the deployment of a system promoting the interconnection and coordinated sharing of information between the different intelligent land transport systems will be crucial to ensuring more efficient land mobility within the european union. the grouping and harmonization of all the service potential of the different information systems relating to land traffic, which operate in a disconnected and independent manner, will bring great advantages at economic, social and also quality of life levels for citizens, allowing safer and greener, shorter or faster journeys to be planned. it will also be important for better public infrastructure management and transport policy-making. for the better impact of this initiative, i would stress the importance of developing specifications for road transport, particularly as regards links with other means of transport. i support the european parliament's position to commit the member states to the deployment of interoperable applications and services in the field of intelligent transport systems, and to stress the need to ensure seamless access and the creation of an efficient cooperation mechanism between all stakeholders.
in writing. − the deployment of intelligent transport systems (its) in the road sector and their interfaces with other modes of transport are essential to ensure the operability of the systems, to guarantee access to all transport without interruptions and to create cooperation mechanisms between all those involved in the implementation of its. the adoption of this draft legislative resolution is an important step towards the implementation of the its.
in writing. - all measures aimed at simplifying procedures and removing unnecessary formalities for intra-community transport are welcome and deserve my support. we must not forget that more bureaucracy means higher costs for businesses and, in many cases, loss of efficiency, which we cannot allow in the present crisis. we know that administrative burdens (and the additional costs they impose) have made the transport of goods by sea less attractive and have been a major obstacle to its full development, even though it is the mode of transport which is least harmful to the environment and, therefore, the one which should be most promoted and supported in a framework of clean development. i therefore look forward to the proposal for administrative simplification (by reducing customs formalities, guidelines for plant health inspections and streamlining documents) now being put forward, and hope that it will be an impetus for a new lease of life in intra-community shipping.
in writing. - in this period of severe economic crisis and weak dynamism in the various sectors of activity, aggravated by the difficulties of public finances in the states, i consider it a priority to focus on simplifying legislation and regulations in order to make the conditions for the operation of companies and institutions more efficient. shipping is subject to complex administrative procedures, even for ships sailing between two ports in the european union and not entering third country ports, which brings unnecessary burdens and costs. i therefore support measures to reduce bureaucracy, which make it profitable to use new technologies and enhance the concept of the single european area by eliminating complex administrative procedures and also guaranteeing gains through the reduction of administrative burdens. this initiative, to remove unnecessary administrative formalities from intra-european maritime transport of goods and to harmonise procedures in the ports of the different member states, is crucial for the promotion of a european maritime transport area without barriers and for ensuring conditions for a more attractive, efficient, economic and environmentally friendly transport service.
in writing. − maritime transport is undoubtedly one of the greenest modes of transport and should therefore be encouraged in order to achieve the environmental objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. in a time of international crisis, the increase in this transport means a reduction in the administrative costs imposed on shipping companies. the formalities required by european union legislation should therefore be simplified and harmonised. it is essential to create a large european shipping area without barriers.
in writing. - the achievement of freedom of movement in the european area also requires the creation of a european maritime area without barriers, the aim of which is to abolish or simplify controls on ships and goods in intra-community space. the reporting formalities required of ships arriving in or departing from ports of the member states should therefore be simplified and an electronic data transmission system (safeseanet) introduced, with which the national systems should be interoperable, accessible and compatible. i am convinced that a maritime area with fewer formal barriers will make maritime transport more attractive and more efficient and will therefore help to boost related activities, particularly in the coastal areas concerned, such as islands, and i therefore support the measures proposed in this report.
in writing. − the transport sector is crucial in europe in terms of the service it provides to the european, in terms of jobs and in terms of environmental impact. this resolution sets out the main lines for european transport policy for the next 10 years with a particular focus on reducing the impact of transport systems on the problem of climate change. transport is responsible for 25% of co2 emissions in europe. cleaner vehicles and more efficient transport systems are essential to reduce this effect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a sustainable future for transport, because the sustainability of transport is fundamental, not only from an environmental point of view, but also for the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the eu. more efforts and innovative forms of investment are needed to complete the trans-european transport network and ensure the sustainable development of transport in the medium and long term.
in writing. − according to the report, the transport sector in the eu accounts for 10% of wealth (gdp), employs over 10 million people and is responsible for 25% of total co2 emissions. these figures make it clear that talking about the future of the eu, talking about the eu 2020 strategy or even talking about cohesion policies is also talking about transport. if transport policy is to give priority to ensuring the safety of passengers and users (and that is why we have adopted two initiatives on passenger rights today), it cannot ignore other objectives such as the coherent and harmonious development of all regions, linking the coast and the interior and the large cities to the most deprived areas, or environmental protection and the reduction of co2 emissions, giving priority to less polluting means such as maritime and rail transport, which should become a priority for the transport of goods. an adequate and efficient transport network is essential to the practical realisation of the internal market and to allow the free movement of people and goods. that is why we have voted today on a proposal on intelligent transport systems (its) which will enable more integrated, safer and more efficient european transport.
in writing. the transport sector is of great importance for the completion of the european internal market. it is this sector which effectively allows the free movement of people and goods throughout the eu. it is also an essential element in the development of the eu and its regions and has a direct influence on the social cohesion of the regions. transport policy must therefore not be dissociated from other policies: regional, environmental, economic, social and employment policies. the transport sector produces 10% of the eu's wealth in terms of gross domestic product and provides more than 10 million jobs, but it also accounts for around 25% of total co2 emissions. i would therefore stress that the decarbonisation of transport must be a priority. in this context, the possibility of internalising external costs should be emphasised. however, it can only make a decisive contribution to reducing exhaust gases and noise and to reducing transport bottlenecks if two conditions are met: on the one hand, the internalisation of external costs must cover all modes of transport and, on the other hand, revenues must be reversed to the benefit of the sustainability of the infrastructure.
in writing. - the report includes guidelines for the future of the transport sector which we consider to be indisputably necessary, such as investment in more environmentally sustainable transport and its proper articulation, the development of sustainable urban mobility plans, the promotion of public transport, the recognition of passengers' rights, in particular those of people with reduced mobility, the adoption of measures to increase road safety and respect for the rights of workers in the sector. however, this statement of guidelines to be followed is in conflict with the emphasis placed on the completion of the internal market, i.e. with the insistence on liberalization of the sector, whether in rail transport, maritime transport and cabotage transport or in air transport. the dismantling of the public transport sector and its privatisation and consequent subjection to the logic of profit - as is clearly shown by the experience in several member states (which the report omits) - removes it from the democratic control of the citizens and leads precisely to the results contrary to the intentions expressed in the report, to a marked degradation of the service and the amputation and characterisation of its social function. whether in terms of safety, quality and accessibility of the service, or in terms of workers' rights, among other aspects.
in writing. − the transport sector is fundamental to the economic development of the european union and its regions, having a direct influence on the competitiveness and social cohesion of the regions, and also contributing to the development and consolidation of the internal market. given its weight in the economy, this sector will play a key role in the eu 2020 strategy, especially in terms of reducing co2 emissions. therefore, and despite its importance for the economy, employment and the professional and private mobility of people, investment is needed in the environmentally friendly improvement of transport, including road transport, as well as in safety, as this sector was responsible for the deaths of around 39 000 people in 2008. so, despite the crisis that has hit this sector hard, now is the time to make a big transformation of the sector, making it safer, more sustainable and more efficient.
in writing. - i consider the transport sector to be an essential area for the development of the european union and its regions, given its influence on competitiveness and the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the regions and its contribution to the effective completion of the european internal market. it is important to look ahead to the future of transport in terms of sustainability and interoperability and i therefore welcome the proposals in the document which set targets to be achieved by 2020 and which aim, in particular, at a percentage reduction in co2 emissions and a reduction in the accident rate. i also welcome the aspect of efficient co-modality, which is even more relevant in the outermost regions, such as madeira, particularly as regards the link between road, sea and air transport. however, i do not support the initiative to create a specific fund for the dynamisation of the transport sector because i believe that such funding should continue to be provided by the various existing means and guided by the priorities of cohesion policy and whose coordination should be facilitated in the implementation of the various european policies.
in writing. - the ep is directly elected by the citizens. the right to petition gives european citizens the opportunity to address their representatives if they believe their rights have been infringed. it is the duty of parliament to investigate the situation and to do everything in its power to put an end to these violations by providing citizens with the most appropriate and rapid means of redress. the number of petitions received has been increasing, although not all of them have been admissible, which shows that citizens are becoming increasingly aware of this right, which allows the impact of european legislation on the daily lives of eu citizens to be assessed. the lisbon treaty reconfirmed this right as a pillar of european citizenship and created the conditions for increased citizen participation in the eu decision-making process, in order to enhance its legitimacy and accountability. i think it is essential to create incentives for greater participation. the creation of a portal with an interactive multi-step model for petitions to inform citizens about the solutions they can obtain by submitting petitions and the areas covered could help to achieve this.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report as a whole and congratulate the committee on petitions on the work it has done in 2009. a particularly demanding year for a commission whose agenda is defined by citizens in the exercise of their right to petition the european parliament. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon reaffirms the right to petition as a pillar of european citizenship. however, statistics on the number of inadmissible petitions show that the right to petition, as a tool enabling european citizens to express their concerns to parliament about the effects of european policies and legislation on their daily lives, is still not being used properly by all those who use it. this highlights the need to continue efforts to inform and educate the european citizen about the eu mechanisms and instruments at his disposal. i therefore welcome the proposal to set up a single point of contact at european union level to provide guidance to european citizens when they seek answers and solutions to all the issues they feel are violations of their rights.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has created the necessary conditions for increased citizen participation in the eu decision-making process with a view to enhancing its legitimacy and accountability. it is clear that european legislation has a direct impact on citizens. they should therefore be encouraged to have a strong participatory attitude in order to give their views on the effectiveness, shortcomings and gaps in the legislation. the right of petition enshrined in the lisbon treaty gives european citizens the possibility of turning to the european parliament whenever they consider that their rights have been infringed. the european parliament, through its committee on petitions, investigates and seeks to resolve any infringements. i am sure that the european parliament will be involved in the formulation of the right of citizens' initiative so that this instrument can fully achieve its objective and ensure greater transparency and accountability in the eu decision-making process, allowing citizens to propose improvements or additions to eu law.
in writing. - the annual report of the committee on petitions shows that european citizens are increasingly turning to their representatives when they feel that their rights have been violated. it is therefore important to improve access to petitions by those concerned, in particular through the internet and electronic means. the majority of petitions continue to express concern about the implementation of european legislation in the internal market and the environment, as these are the areas where member states fail most to implement community directives.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has led to a huge increase in unemployment rates, with a particularly strong impact on the younger population. some 21.4% of young people in the eu are unemployed and kept on the margins of the economy, which is all the more serious when we consider that with the ageing of the population we are putting the eu's own economic and social future at risk. it is also the young workers who are in the most precarious, temporary, low-quality jobs, with the lowest wages and the least social security. it is essential that new employment opportunities be found, which are dignified, regular and permanent, enabling these young people to become self-sufficient. it is up to the member states to invest politically and economically in job creation. they should ensure equal access to education, invest in education and training and strengthen the school guidance system in order to reduce the risk of early school leaving and failure. it is up to the eu to define common strategies and in this respect i support the rapporteur's proposal for the creation of a european youth guarantee which can ensure that any young person in the eu has the right to receive an offer of employment, a traineeship or vocational training after a maximum of 4 months of unemployment.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of the most important and urgent problems facing europe, currently affecting 5.5 million young people under 25 across the union. a structural problem whose scale and economic and social impact have been greatly increased by the recent economic crisis. it is therefore with a sense of responsibility and the awareness that youth must be placed on the political agenda that i vote in favour of this report. the pressing problem of youth unemployment is accompanied by other risks and social and economic costs for our societies. these are reflected, for example, in the loss of opportunities for economic growth, the erosion of the tax base and its consequences for public investment, the increase in social assistance expenditure, or even the risk of long-term unemployment and social exclusion. i understand that we cannot resign ourselves to losing young europeans to social exclusion. on the contrary, europe has much to gain if it can include young people in the labour market and society through an integrated approach, common strategies and a coherent combination of educational, financial, labour and social policies that confirm the robustness of youth policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on promoting young people's access to the labour market and strengthening the status of traineeships and apprenticeships, both of which are key to ensuring that young people do not bear the costs of the current crisis. the participation of young mothers in the labour market must also be promoted by extending the networks of quality childcare facilities.
in writing. the rapporteur concludes her explanatory statement with the following exhortation: let's turn the lost generation into the generation of hope. i share the desire and the goodwill that this statement contains and i would like to be more certain that this reversal is still possible. i recognise that there is a clear separation between school and academic life and the labour market and the need to bridge this gap so that a smoother transition from school to employment is possible, and to carry out the assessment of the fit between what is taught and working life. while the status of the learner today is clearly different and better than in the past, it is also true that in many cases today's trainees are not given effective training appropriate to their needs and expectations.
in writing. - in the current economic crisis, there are now more than 5.5 million young people under 25 in the eu who are unemployed, which is twice the total unemployment rate. youth unemployment has a heavy social and economic cost for our societies, resulting in lost opportunities for economic growth, an erosion of the tax base that has hampered investment in infrastructure and public services, increased costs of social assistance and under-utilisation of investment in education and training. europe's youth is a wellspring of untapped human resources. the forecasts of the economic and social situation call for action. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which aims to create more inclusion in the labour market through better jobs, a proper transition to the labour market and tackling precarious working conditions. i would like to highlight in this context my proposals for the 2011 eu budget to give priority to youth. i also mention the proposal to help young people to get their first job on the european labour market through erasmus 1st employment.
in writing. - while this report does highlight the serious problem of youth unemployment, which is currently at twice the rate of unemployment in general, it does not propose any substantive measures to actually solve the situation, which would require a break with the current policies of the stability pact and other monetarist, liberal and anti-social policies in force. while emphasising the fight against youth unemployment, the promotion of training and employment for young people and the need to end the abuse of traineeships and training, often unpaid, as a substitute for work rather than a complement to education and training, the report does not point to safe ways out of this situation. but even more worrying is the defence of the concept of flexicurity as a way of ending youth unemployment and a way of transitioning from the education system to the labour market. the reality is that this means the precariousness of low-paid and insecure work, which hinders any project for the lives of young people. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of europe's most pressing problems. with the global economic recession, this problem is becoming even more worrying, since we are faced with more than 5.5 million young people under 25 unemployed. we risk losing a generation to social exclusion, putting the eu's economic and social future at risk. youth unemployment has enormous social and economic costs for our societies, and consequently seriously affects the opportunity for economic growth, a loss of taxation that delays investment in infrastructure and public services, an increase in the cost of social assistance and an under-utilisation of investment in education and training. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on atypical contracts, job security, flexicurity and new forms of social dialogue. atypical employment relationships are defined as new forms of employment contract which have one or more of the following characteristics: parttime, occasional, temporary, fixed-term, home-based and teleworking, parttime work for a period of 20 hours or less per week. the financial and economic crisis facing the european union could lead to unstable labour markets and increasing social exclusion. it is therefore urgent to help member states safeguard as many jobs and employment in europe as possible. efforts to invest in skills, training and sustainable job creation need to be intensified, as well as the promotion of the principles of flexicurity. under the eu 2020 strategy, clear guidelines and concrete measures to protect employment and create job opportunities should be proposed.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the majority of the measures proposed in this report. the economic crisis has, of course, led to a significant increase in the number of atypical contracts and precarious working conditions. and that they have a greater impact on young people and women. however, i believe that the european social model, whose objectives focus on sustainable growth, full employment, the promotion of well-being and social protection, has the necessary conditions and means to lead the eu and its member states through the crisis. in this regard, i would like to highlight two aspects which i consider vital in the face of the current economic crisis and abnormally high unemployment figures in the eu, with a view to protecting quality and decent employment and creating new job opportunities under the 2020 strategy. the first concerns the need to step up investment in skills, vocational and lifelong training. the second concerns the importance of effective implementation of flexicurity strategies, thus making it possible to combat illegal employment and reduce job insecurity.
in writing. − in recent years, following the global economic crisis, unemployment in the eu has risen exponentially (to 10% at the end of 2009). with the current model having proven to be both ineffective and not the most suitable for job protection, it is essential that we find new ways of overcoming the crisis and creating a sustainable long-term employment policy. so i think the key is to invest in training workers, in the specific skills of each person and in innovation. the rigid models of labour law have proven to fail. the example of the united states shows that flexibility is not synonymous with insecurity but with dynamism in the labour market. this is what the figures quoted in the report show when they tell us that only 10% of unemployed people in the us last more than a year, compared with 45% (!) in the eu. this is what i believe europe should be looking for in the european concept of flexicurity. atypical contracts (part-time; shift, occasional or temporary work; homework; teleworking, etc.) should not be regarded with suspicion simply because they are atypical. society has evolved, the world has changed, and industrial relations must necessarily keep pace with this change.
in writing. − atypical employment relationships are defined as new forms of contract which have one or more of the following characteristics: parttime, occasional, temporary, fixed-term, homework and telework, parttime work for a period of 20 hours or less per week. the jobs lost as a result of the current crisis were primarily those in the atypical work sector, where it is more difficult to find a new job. more than one fifth of european workers change jobs every year. in the eu, 45% of all unemployment periods last more than a year, compared with about 10% in the us. it calls on the council to take this reality into account and to adopt concrete measures to protect quality and decent employment and create sustainable work opportunities in the framework of the eu 2020 strategy. a set of essential rights should be guaranteed to all employed persons, irrespective of their employment status. i also support the urgent extension of the protection of workers in atypical forms of employment. the eu cannot lose its european social model, but must strengthen it.
in writing. - we voted against this report on atypical contracts, safe working practices, flexicurity and new forms of social dialogue, because, although it has some positive points, such as the encouragement of the transition from typical forms of work to formal forms of work, the report in general is mainly about promoting flexicurity. this is illustrated by many of the articles in the report, in particular where it refers to: it considers that an update of the thinking on flexicurity at european level is essential in the light of the current crisis, in order to contribute to increasing productivity and the quality of jobs, ensuring job security and protection of workers' rights, ... allowing companies the necessary organisational flexibility to create or reduce jobs in response to the ever-changing needs of the market. what we do know is that employers and governments at community level are not looking for a fair and balanced application of the principles of flexicurity which can help to make labour markets stronger in the event of structural changes. on the contrary, as has happened in portugal, precariousness is increasing and safety is decreasing, with increasingly weakening labour relations and the rights of those who work.
in writing. - a europe that is increasingly focused on its citizens must seek to be inclusive in the labour market. in this time of severe economic and financial crisis, it is necessary to take advantage of all the mechanisms that allow us to save jobs, especially among the most vulnerable parts of the labour market. the social partners are also called upon to take the necessary steps to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations.
in writing. − the selective collection and recycling of bio-waste is fundamental to europe's sustainable development. i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the european commission to draw up a proposal for a specific directive on bio-waste by the end of the year. the new legislation should stipulate the mandatory selective collection and recycling of bio-waste.
in writing. - waste treatment is a problem affecting europe and humanity. tons of waste are generated every day, causing harmful environmental damage and negative impacts on the health and quality of life of citizens. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr josé manuel fernandes, on his excellent work. the current legislation on bio-waste does not meet the needs of regulation of the matter. i welcome the initiative to propose a specific directive to achieve the objectives of effective and sustainable management of bio-waste (better legislation, simplification, clarity and legal certainty). the problem is not only the harmful environmental impact of the normal landfilling of this waste, but also the relevant role in fertilizing the soil and the entire energy potential underlying it (via biogas) which can be used to generate electricity, heating or automobile fuel. a specific directive on the management of bio-waste seems to me to be a basic corollary to the implementation of the principles contained in the framework directive on waste. it is necessary to compile scattered standards, harmonize practices and boost the internal market through environmental synergy, recycling and the creation of green jobs. a resource-efficient europe is not just a europe 2020, it is a europe of the future!
in writing. − efficient management of bio-waste not only provides environmental benefits but also makes a positive contribution to society and the economy. i therefore vote in favour of the proposals contained in this report. the importance of improving the efficiency of bio-waste management and of prioritising prevention/reduction of bio-waste will contribute to the promotion of sustainable development and sustainable management of natural resources. the positive effects of better management of bio-waste should not be overlooked, in particular the impact on the functioning of the internal market, on the future of agriculture through the preservation and restoration of soil fertility or the promotion of renewable energy. the importance of bringing together the vast body of legislation on bio-waste management into a single piece of legislation and the need to harmonise member states' policies through a specific bio-waste directive is thus underlined.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the commission's green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union, as it will strengthen environmental protection in the eu and help combat climate change by making selective collection and recycling of bio-waste compulsory.
in writing. − the mere observation of the amount of bio-waste we throw out daily and which comes from our private consumption should alert us to the need to explore properly the best ways of using it and of reducing its impact on the environment. if we add industrial consumption to private consumption, this need quickly takes on an urgent character and should motivate both policy-makers and experts to persist in studying the most appropriate processes and methods. i believe that a directive aimed at an effective improvement in the management of this type of waste could be of great benefit to all citizens in the member states.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this resolution, for which i am rapporteur, which calls for the development of a specific directive on bio-waste by the end of 2010 and the establishment of a mandatory separate collection system for member states, except where this is not the best option from an environmental and economic point of view. the amount of bio-waste generated in the eu is estimated to be around 100 million tonnes per year. waste is the fourth largest source of greenhouse gases in the eu, especially when landfilled. the resolution aims to encourage the diversion of bio-waste from landfills, to encourage the production of high-quality compost to recover soils without chemicals and to stimulate the creation of renewable energy. the european commission has so far insisted that a directive on this waste stream is unnecessary. i hope that the commissioner responsible for the environment dg will read the report, understand the position of the large majority in parliament and stop taking an autistic view on this matter. our position is ambitious and realistic. we are calling for a specific directive that brings clarity and legal certainty, and we hope that the commissioner will live up to parliament's ambition.
in writing. - the management of bio-waste, which is absolutely necessary for the healthy existence of the human species and its harmonious balance with nature, should not be seen in the light of narrow commercial interests. the report under discussion refers to the obligation for member states to have a separate collection system and the appropriate treatment of bio-waste through anaerobic digestion and composting. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. apart from the technical difficulties inherent in the proposed treatment, which cannot be ignored, it is much more expensive. the question which the report fails to answer is: who will pay? the report is laconic in terms of measures to prevent the production of waste, with the discourse focusing almost exclusively on recycling. reduction is one of the best ways of combating waste problems. the possibility of home composting is mentioned, which allows many bio-waste to be diverted from the general treatment system - a question not addressed in the report. as for the compound, it is not enough to say that it must be produced. the conditions must be created for its use, without restrictions and without adequate technical or scientific justification, which only favours the strong competitor, the fertiliser industry.
in writing. − i consider measures to improve the management of bio-waste in the european union, taking advantage of its wide-ranging environmental and economic benefits, to be fundamental. with the economic and territorial expansion of the european union, the quantities of waste generated are increasing, with the amount of bio-waste produced annually in the eu estimated at around 100 million tonnes of food and garden waste and 37 million tonnes of waste from the food and beverage industry. many of these biodegradable garden, kitchen and food waste can and should be harnessed as a source of renewable energy and in recycled materials. in this way we will not only be contributing to the fight against climate change, but also to the promotion of healthier soils and the slowing of biodiversity loss.
in writing. - i welcome the overwhelming approval of this report, as it focuses on the pressing issue of the management of bio-waste in the eu and moves towards calling on the european commission to draw up a directive creating a mandatory separate collection system for all member states. in fact, waste management is a serious and current problem that needs urgent resolution, especially when we consider that the eu produces about 100 million tonnes of bio-waste per year. it should also be stressed that the eu's commitment to combating climate change, which it is a world leader in, requires proper waste management, as waste is the fourth largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu. biowaste can also be reused for bioenergy and biofuel production. the recycling industry currently creates up to 250 jobs for every 10 000 tonnes of waste recycled. the call for a specific directive on bio-waste management is an important contribution of this report, recognising that the current bio-waste standards are fragmented and that greater clarity, simplification and legal certainty are needed.
in writing. - the management of bio-waste in the eu is an extremely important issue nowadays, not only because of the massive amount of waste produced annually (estimated at 139 million tonnes), but also because of the constant climate change we are witnessing. the production of bio-waste, by definition, is inevitable, but what can be avoided is its mismanagement, particularly in the case of landfilling, which is the main source of emissions of gases to the ozone layer. this waste can be transformed into a social asset, because if we can extract benefits from it, then we can renew industries and harness resources that would otherwise be untapped. i am referring, among other things, to its capacity to be used for the production of bioenergy, which can be converted into electricity and heating, or biofuels, as an alternative to fossil resources which are practically exhausted by the incessant demand. the report is an important step towards the sustainable development of the union and i believe, in full agreement with the rapporteur, that the best way to achieve the objectives set out, both for environmental policy and for the internal market, will be through the drawing up of a directive on bio-waste.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, the european project, which has been built up with such effort over the last 50 years, has never been more threatened than it is today. the frustration of european citizens is enormous, the financial system that was supposed to serve them has destroyed their savings, their pensions, their investment projects, their jobs, in short, their future. the way forward is clear and lies in the architecture we have discussed here today. we need a strong european supervisory architecture covering all products and all actors, with effective intervention methodologies and instruments, and able to respond to the reality of a market which, especially in the european context, does not recognise national borders. risk cannot and should not be eliminated from the financial market, but we need regulation to make this risk more transparent and to prevent the accumulation of bubbles whose bursting affects the whole system and spreads to the real economy. but if, despite these defenses, new crises occur in the future, it is crucial to have mechanisms in place to limit contagion, especially in the banking system, because it is vital to the functioning of the economy and is the depository of citizens' savings. it is precisely in the powers and competences of the banking authority that lies the capacity to implement a new strategy for crossborder crisis management in the banking sector, the subject of my report. it is not in our hands to prevent banks from going bankrupt, but to ensure that their reorganisation or eventual liquidation is carried out in an orderly manner, limiting the side effects on the rest of the system and, above all, avoiding the taxpayer from paying the costs of the crises they generate. this requires a set of new provisions, the adoption of rules, definitions, methodologies, instruments and terminology common to all those involved in restructuring, reorganisation or liquidation operations. the national legal frameworks relevant to crisis management, in particular bankruptcy and liquidation laws, need to be harmonised. it is necessary to confer on supervisors extended powers of intervention. clear criteria, not only quantitative but also qualitative, must be drawn up to enable an institution in difficulty to be assisted. we need to prepare contingency plans. this whole process for 27 member states takes time. however, some 50 of the 12 000 banks operating in europe account for 70% of assets. this means a huge concentration of risk, but also an opportunity to act on them first. there are therefore grounds for proposing a special and urgent procedure for the regulation of banks which, because of their cross-border nature and their relationships with other banks, have a possible systemic impact on the financial system. for these banks, it is possible to anticipate special supervision by the new european banking authority, although it will operate in the college of national supervisors. it is possible and urgent that they should, in view of the risk they pose, start making contributions to a fund to finance any intervention that may be necessary; it is important that the banking authority establishes a specialised unit to coordinate the intervention in the event of a crisis in these banks. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution. this proposal fits perfectly into what we are discussing, especially the powers of the banking authority, which i would even say is the most obvious test of its effectiveness. the vote in the economic and monetary committee was overwhelmingly in favour of this proposal, 87% of the votes cast. we also count here in the house on the massive vote of this institution that, by massively supporting this proposal, which is visionary, which is realistic but which is pragmatic, we will take the urgent action needed to revive the hope of europeans in europe, in its financial system and, in particular, in the banking system.
the rapporteur. - i shall try to be very brief and to emphasise only four points. the first of these is that it has been an extraordinary experience to work in such solidarity with my colleagues from the other political forces. i am very grateful to you for including me in the monitoring package and in particular i am very grateful to mr garcia margallo for all the cooperation that was possible. secondly, i would like to thank my personal collaborators and also the colleagues who contributed to the specific report i am responsible for, which enabled me to incorporate 90% of their proposals. a special word to the secretariat, to susana vravova and to the committee services. finally, my thanks to the commissioner and his services, and the very clear expression of hope that, on the basis of the report, which i hope will be adopted tomorrow, it will indeed be possible to build a solid basis, a truly european basis which protects the citizens.
the new directive creates a more demanding and up-to-date regulatory framework for industrial emissions, which we consider to be an important step towards better protection of the environment and public health, in particular for people living and working in the vicinity of industrial complexes or in areas under their influence. the setting of emission limit values for a wide range of pollutants and the need for large emitters to adapt to these limit values by means of the best available technologies establish an important principle: that in order to protect the environment and public health we must implement the best available technologies in production processes, especially those with the greatest environmental impact. this is the approach we are also advocating for emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. the use of market instruments such as carbon trading, which the european union has been advocating, is countered by the need for a regulatory approach that is environmentally effective and socially fair, as opposed to the merchant approach. we therefore welcome the rejection, at this second reading, of the application of emission trading to nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide which some have called for, and we note the amendment which clarifies the possibility of setting limit values and therefore a regulatory approach, rather than a market approach, also for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases subject to the european emission trading scheme. however, in pursuing this overall effort to reduce emissions, we cannot fail to take account of the differences between member states and the specificities of each. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis. the compromise reached ensures that this diverse reality is respected. the planned, appropriate and justified derogations and the transitional national plans ensure the necessary flexibility in the implementation of the best available technologies without compromising the original objectives of protecting the environment and public health. we also welcome the express possibility for member states to maintain or adopt more stringent protective measures than those laid down in this directive, in particular those relating to the greenhouse gas emissions already mentioned. in order to safeguard sustainable production in the different member states and regions, this new regulatory framework now established should be complemented by community measures to support the modernisation of production systems, in particular in the most vulnerable economies. finally, it is also essential to support public r&d investment that ensures the evolution and continuous improvement of the best available technologies.
i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their excellent work. deforestation, as we know, is one of the major environmental and social problems on the planet, and every year we lose 13 million hectares of forest, contributing to 20% of global carbon emissions and posing a huge threat to biodiversity. the contribution of deforestation to climate change is undeniable and as such is largely responsible for the occurrence of extreme weather events and floods or even desertification of vast areas of the planet. the loss of forests puts all of humanity at risk, but that risk and that impact are not shared equally by all of us. communities with fewer resources and communities that rely more on the forest and nature for their survival are the most affected. deforestation is about our collective existence, about the scarcity of natural resources, about their distribution, about the rights of local and indigenous communities, about social justice. the main cause of deforestation is illegal logging, which accounts for 20 to 40 percent of the world's industrial timber production. so we are also talking about a transfer of wealth from the producing countries to the consuming countries of the same wood. this illegal practice puts at risk the sustainable exploitation of timber and the companies that make it. it's not enough to say nice things. this parliament must take strong and consistent action in this fight. this report takes a very significant step in that direction by defining the prohibition of trade in timber. good intentions are not enough either. effective means are needed, namely sanctions, which in this case can be of three types. first, fines which effectively take away the economic benefit of the illegal practice, increased by repeated offence. secondly, the confiscation of the timber and the products in question. and thirdly, the immediate suspension of the authorization to carry on a commercial activity. and that is why anyone who harvests or markets a natural resource must be socially responsible, and so too anyone who brings timber or timber products into the european union for the first time must be required to take steps to ensure that it is legally harvested timber. therefore, all operators below must provide basic information on such wood, in particular its origin and destination. the people must also have the right - and i end here, mr president - to have access to information about who is complying and who is not.
mr president, europe needs to renew its confidence and hope. in a crisis that has not yet been overcome, we had the fire brigade, as jacques delors said. we hope that the belgian presidency will bring in the architects. the first test, of course, will be the council's approach to parliament's proposals on the financial architecture as early as september. but today one of the greatest challenges for europe is to ensure that the european currency does not collapse, whether because of a lack of follow-up instruments, or because of a lack of growth in the eurozone, or above all because of the growing divergences and internal tensions caused by the economies that make it up. cutting structural funds today, as the commission proposes, which were created to stimulate convergence between divergent economies, seems to be fuelling a fire that has not yet been extinguished. we clearly need architects. one last question, please. i would like to know the external dimension of the european union's action, in particular to know a little more about what the belgian presidency is proposing for cancun and doha.
mr president, i cannot help but reply to mr farage by saying that it is very strange, indeed unique, that a person who defends here the autonomy and independence of the states and the ability of each state to govern its own internal affairs... the only speech he has here is to talk about the internal affairs of belgium. how can anyone defend the autonomy and independence of states and come to the european parliament to talk about the internal politics of a state? everything is explained about how it respects the autonomy and independence of each state! dear prime minister, i just wanted to congratulate you on three things. firstly, i have already seen that the belgian presidency is impeccably prepared. secondly, i wanted to say that we should focus on economic governance by supporting the efforts of president van rompuy and the efforts of the commission to come out of this with an economic government. i would like to welcome him and say that he will have the full support of the epp, and in particular of the portuguese, for the initiative to look at africa, because for us africa is a priority for the european union.
mr president, mr leterme, i want to say first of all that i listened to you very carefully and i also read your programme very carefully and so i will start with something you said to us here today when you presented yourself, which was that a european union with a monetary government but without economic governance does not work. i could not agree more, and that is why i am calling for the measures for this economic governance to be clear, transparent, but above all democratic, because they have not yet existed. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and the strengthening and the objectives set are in the direction of more of the stability and growth pact, more insistence on the deficit and public debt. and we know very well that these measures are measures which, once again, will strengthen that monetary governance, but not the economic governance which is necessary and urgent. and that is why wage reduction measures, such as those which have been applied in the context of the stability and growth plans, do not make for competitive growth, and therefore to insist on the same is to insist on recessionary measures which will only bring about more recession. i would also like to say that we are not yet very satisfied with the new architectures they are announcing and with the additional measures and the continuation of the important initiatives taken in the european area in recent months. so perhaps it was to apply what had been announced, rather than announce new things. because not only was it not applied, we didn't feel it, the greeks didn't feel it either. and i think it is essential that we make progress once and for all towards social and economic integration in a decent and transparent way.
in writing. belgium takes over the eu presidency at a time when many of the consequences of the systemic crisis of capitalism are becoming more acute. the crisis in the eu is also, as is becoming clear, a crisis in the very foundations of the integration process itself. more than 85 million people in the eu have fallen into poverty. the number of people who are not in the labour force is very high, and according to the criteria proposed in recent weeks, it could be much higher, over 100 million. structural imbalances within the eu are worsening. economic and social cohesion is increasingly a mere propaganda device, a dead letter in the treaties. the seriousness of the situation contrasts with the complete absence of measures to deal with it. on the contrary, in the face of the crisis, the eu's revenue - with the strengthening of the stability and growth pact and the consequent attacks on wages, social rights and the social functions of the states - will inevitably lead to an even sharper economic decline and an even more rigid social regression. in this context, the intensification of the social struggle in the various countries will certainly mark the six months of the belgian presidency. being a factor of hope and confidence in a better future!
belgium takes over the presidency of the european union at a time of economic and social challenges for a number of countries. this presidency should be used to prepare and debate the fifth report on cohesion policy which is expected to be adopted by the commission by november and to bring more emphasis to the structural funds in the europe 2020 strategy as well as to the relationship between cohesion and regional competitiveness through the continuation of governance covering the various institutional levels, namely european, national, regional and local. the october summit on the new european innovation strategy will also be an opportunity for national leaders to seek greater clarity on issues such as the funding of innovation and the indicators that will be used to measure it. i cannot but stress that the allocation of more resources to this field, the financing of which in the outermost regions of europe must be given special attention, must be accompanied by the promotion of the proximity between universities and research centres and the national business fabric. only in this way can this commitment be reflected in real business opportunities and greater competitiveness for our companies in the context of industrial conversion.
madam president, i think that, after the results of these previous votes and because we need a qualified majority, as a democratic requirement we should repeat the vote on amendment 5. (applause)
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that, in the chapter on effective governance in the area of remuneration, shareholders should have the possibility to contribute to the determination of sustainable remuneration policies and that, to this end, they could have the possibility to express their opinion on remuneration policies by means of a non-binding vote at the general meeting of the company on the remuneration report, and that members involved in risk control should be independent of the business units they control, have appropriate authority and be remunerated independently of the performance of these business units.
in writing. - aware that the lack of effective control instruments contributes significantly to excessive risk-taking by financial institutions and of the importance of the management of listed companies taking account of the stability of the financial system, i vote in favour of the general measures proposed in this report. indeed, with the current economic and financial crisis, it has become clear that the inappropriate level of remuneration practised by some companies has encouraged an excessive and reckless practice of risk taking, aimed at maximising short-term profit. such repeated practices have led to the development of risk-based business models to the detriment of the sustainable growth of companies. measures should therefore be taken to reduce the risks taken and to re-shape the incentive system. in this connection, rather than launching a european initiative on remuneration policy in the financial sector and in listed companies, coordinated european action is required in the field of the remuneration of directors of these companies.
in writing. − the remuneration of directors of listed companies has been at the forefront of discussions about the economic crisis. a remuneration policy based on principles of transparency, rewarding long-term rather than short-term results and preventing excessive risk-taking, as has sometimes been observed in the past, is essential. it should also be borne in mind that the elements of an effective remuneration policy should be approved by the general meeting of shareholders with a view to fair compensation of directors for their work.
in writing. − the recent economic and financial crisis has raised the issue of remuneration for directors of listed companies and remuneration policies in the financial services sector. the search for short-term results to achieve socalled variable remuneration can sometimes lead to less prudent management practices that protect the interests of workers, shareholders and society at large. the systemic risk arising from the fact that large financial groups operate on a global scale leads to measures to regulate these variable remunerations in order to safeguard future situations of fragility of the financial undertakings concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because of the set of guidelines it advocates. i consider it appropriate to ensure: 1. effective governance in the area of remuneration - whereas supervisory authorities should be able to decide whether a financial institution or a listed company should have a remuneration committee; 2. effective alignment between remuneration and prudent risk-taking - by adjusting remuneration to the types of risk that impact the overall performance and stability of the company; - by basing variable remuneration levels on predetermined and measurable performance criteria; - by stating that remuneration plans should not include guaranteed premiums; 3. a balanced structure of the remuneration package - through the dissemination by enterprises of clear, comprehensive and timely information on their remuneration practices, - through the publication of details of the pension and supplementary pension arrangements of companies, including those relating to public enterprises.
in writing. − the novel food regulation states that food produced with nanotechnologies should only be authorised after being subjected to evaluation methods. the regulation also states that food derived from cloned animals or their descendants should not be authorised in the european union. we are facing new situations and the precautionary principle should apply. it will be essential to deepen scientific knowledge in these areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on novel foods because it introduces new rules which will strengthen the safety of these foods in the eu. i also believe that food derived from cloned animals or their descendants should not be allowed in the european union.
in writing. the aim of the regulation is to ensure food security by promoting the widest possible path from farm to table. we therefore have concerns about production processes, labelling and market monitoring. i support these concerns precisely because they allow the consumer to make an informed choice about the food he eats, with a good knowledge of its composition and how it is produced. however, in the face of the increasing trend towards eu regulation in these matters, i would like to recall what has happened to gm cereals, which were once banned in the union but are freely imported from third countries. this puts european producers at a disadvantage when their products compete on supermarket shelves with others, which are essentially the same but with faster and cheaper production methods, allowing them to become more attractive to the consumer. finally, i would point out that in the united states the fda has already approved the consumption of cloned animals as food (2008). this, like the past with gmos, poses real problems for europe in importing these products and makes it urgent to regulate this matter.
in writing. − this regulation lays down harmonised rules for the placing of novel foods on the community market in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the transparency and effective functioning of the internal market and stimulating innovation in the agri-food industry. the regulation applies to food additives, food enzymes, food flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties, the production of which has been subjected to a new process, not used before 15 may 1997, which results in significant changes in the composition or structure of food, such as artificial nanomaterials. where a novel food is likely to have an effect on the human body comparable to that of a medicinal product, the commission shall request the european medicines agency (ema) to determine whether that novel food falls within the scope of regulation (ec) no 726/2004. i am in favour of excluding food produced from cloned animals and their progeny from the scope of the regulation. i do not see any justification for the consumption of cloned animals, because i am not convinced that cloning does not jeopardize the welfare of the animal.
in writing. − the novel food regulation aims to establish harmonised rules for the placing of novel foods on the community market in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and life, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers. we voted in favour of this second reading because we believe that the proposed amendments are in line with these objectives. the document also calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to prohibit the placing on the community market of food derived from cloned animals and their descendants, as has already been done in other texts such as the resolution of 3 september 2008. this is a correct and proper application of the precautionary principle. we also welcome the indication that new foods placed on the market need to be monitored. unfortunately, the majority of parliament has again rejected the need to label food containing genetically modified organisms (gmos) or animals fed gmos, calling into question the principle of transparency, information and consumer choice.
in writing. - without rigor, products that may cause problems for society cannot be approved. this regulation is therefore of the utmost importance for the european market, as it safeguards food safety and human health. food produced using nanotechnologies should be subject to a specific risk assessment before it can be approved, labelled and placed on the european market. food produced from cloned animals or their descendants is a controversial issue, but in my view such food should not be allowed in the european union. the uncertainties about the economic, social and environmental impacts of these new technologies require an increasingly careful assessment. scientists become the main mediators of society's relationship with risk, with the power to anticipate future dangers and decide on the approval of new foods. only foods appearing on the community list may be placed on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ippc directive, which aims to prevent and control emissions from industrial installations. this is an integrated pollution control covering emissions to air, water and soil. this legislation has a very large impact at european level, as it applies to thousands of industrial plants, thus encouraging european industry to use less polluting and more efficient technologies and processes in terms of the natural resources consumed. this directive will contribute to better air, water and soil quality in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on industrial emissions because i believe that a balanced agreement has been reached on ensuring an integrated approach to reducing emissions while at the same time ensuring the competitiveness of european industry, based on the best available technologies.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive aims to consolidate the seven existing directives on industrial emissions into a single instrument. this effort aims to ensure a high level of environmental protection while at the same time standardising and simplifying procedures across the various member states and reducing unnecessary administrative burdens. while recognising the need for an ambitious approach to industrial emissions control, in line with the eu's environmental and climate change objectives, i think it is important to point out that the rules and targets imposed on european industries cannot be so ambitious as to jeopardise their competitiveness in a globalised world. the concept of clean development, which i enthusiastically support, presupposes growth and competitiveness in a more environmentally friendly context. it cannot, therefore, mean more difficulties and more obstacles to european industrial activity.
in writing. − in 2005, the commission initiated a review of the pcip directive, which resulted in a proposal for a directive on industrial emissions that aims to review and merge the seven existing directives on the subject into a single directive. the pcip directive covers some 52 000 industrial installations, whose emissions account for a large proportion of all air pollution in the eu. under this directive, the competent authorities of the member states are required to take account of brefs when granting operating licences to industrial installations and when setting the emission limit values (elvs) applicable to certain installations. in addition to polluting the atmosphere, industrial activity also has negative environmental impacts on water and soil and produces waste. an integrated approach to licensing that takes into account the overall effects on the environment is therefore essential. i welcome the adoption of this report, especially the restriction of derogations by industrial operators.
in writing. - as we said during the debate in plenary, the new directive creates a more demanding regulatory framework for industrial emissions and, with it, conditions for better protection of the environment and public health, in particular for people living and working in the vicinity of industrial complexes or in areas under their influence. the important principle is enshrined that in order to protect the environment and public health, we must implement the best technologies available to us through scientific and technological development in production processes, especially those with the greatest environmental impact. but the compromise reached at second reading also ensures the necessary flexibility in the implementation of the best available technologies (bat) to take due account of the differences between member states and the specificities of each one, from the outset at the level of their production systems and production conditions, as well as at the level of the capacity to implement the necessary adaptations in production technologies and processes. the derogations provided for - appropriate and justified - and the transitional national plans make it possible for the various member states and their undertakings to adapt to the new legislation without compromising national production, while safeguarding the original objectives of protecting the environment and public health.
in writing. - this directive summarises in one text seven previous separate directives on industrial emissions. the prevention and control of emissions from industrial installations into the air, water and soil are key to achieving the objectives of a greener economy as set out in the eu 2020 strategy. it is worth noting that many of the pollutants that will now see their emission reduced are risk factors for health and the environment, contributing to the increase in diseases such as cancer and asthma. it is very important that the emission reduction deadlines set out in this directive are met.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ban on the placing on the european market of illegally harvested timber and timber products. this decision is very important for protecting the world's forests, which are an essential factor in the fight against climate change. it will also contribute to the protection and preservation of europe's forests. the illegal import of timber into europe has the effect of drastically lowering the price of timber, making it financially impossible for european forest owners to maintain the timber properly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on obligations for operators placing timber and timber products on the market because the fight against illegal logging is fundamental to halting biodiversity loss and deforestation and is also a key element in the fight against climate change.
in writing. the alarming rate at which forests are disappearing calls us all to make a serious effort to protect a natural heritage essential to the survival of the human species itself. european consumers should be able to be sure that when they buy wood and wood products, they are not contributing to deforestation or fuelling an illegal trade that takes advantage of the criminal exploitation of forest resources and puts at risk companies that behave responsibly and respectfully towards biodiversity. parliament wants to see greater demands made in combating this scourge and greater rigour in importing and selling, which i think we should support.
in writing. - deforestation continues at a rate of approximately 13 million hectares per year and is responsible for almost 20% of global carbon emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss. it is also the source of serious human rights violations, because in many countries forests are of great cultural and social importance to indigenous and forest-dependent peoples. illegal logging is one of the main causes of deforestation, with the volume of industrial timber from illegal logging estimated at 350-650 million m3 per year, representing 20-40% of the world's industrial timber production. it causes the price of timber to fall, deprives us of natural resources and tax revenues and exacerbates the poverty of forest-dependent peoples. as a major consumer of timber and timber products, the eu has an obligation to take effective action against deforestation and illegal logging, which should undoubtedly include a ban on the market for illegal timber and timber products. i support the exclusion of smallholders from the scope of this regulation because i believe that the duty of due diligence is too burdensome.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to lay down the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market. we understand the need to preserve forest resources, ensuring their rational and sustainable exploitation and maintaining biodiversity in our forests and woodlands. however, the report raises some concerns as regards the operationalisation of the procedures in the member states. given the diversity of countries, for example in terms of the size of the property, the regulation may in some cases prove difficult to implement and may entail high costs. on the other hand, there are still doubts about the concept of illegal logging, which is not consensual, given that there is national legislation which already deals with the appropriate regulation, as in portugal, where there are forest species protected by law, the felling of which requires a special authorization. in this way, besides not adding anything substantially new in the field of forestry protection, this regulation may create constraints on the forestry sector in countries such as portugal, which may affect many small and mediumsized enterprises. the problem of the inadequacy of controls on wood from third countries also persists and needs to be resolved.
in writing. − deforestation and forest degradation are the main factors responsible for biodiversity loss. in turn, illegal logging is the main driver of deforestation, accounting for 20 to 40% of the world's industrial timber production. in order to put an end to this illegality and to apply severe sanctions to those who extract timber illegally, this regulation was adopted. the adoption of this regulation is therefore very important in order to avoid a fall in the price of timber, the deprivation of natural resources for citizens, the loss of tax revenue and the worsening of poverty for the populations that depend economically on the forest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive because i believe that the identification of the areas to be covered by technical standards should strike a fair balance in creating a single set of harmonised rules, avoiding unnecessary complications in regulation and its application. only those areas should be selected where consistent technical standards make a significant and effective contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the relevant legislation, while ensuring that political decisions are taken, in accordance with the current procedures, by the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. − as is now clear, due to the consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, the continued success of the european integration process is absolutely dependent on the ability to find solutions for strengthening the competences of integrated supervisory intervention structures at european level. national sovereignty is increasingly dependent on supranational intervention through community structures with resources and powers to act and devise strategies outside the influence of national and isolated wishes and needs. i therefore reaffirm my support for the consolidation of the competences of the european structures responsible for acting and supervising the activities of the various european financial sectors, such as the european banking authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims at an overall improvement in the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. the establishment of a european system of financial supervisors and the definition of their responsibilities are essential to achieve an effective supervisory model in all sectors, in particular banking, insurance and supplementary pensions, and securities and markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i believe that the authority should take into account the impact of its activities on competition and innovation in the internal market, the union's overall competitiveness, financial inclusion and the new eu strategy for jobs and growth. i also agree that in order to achieve its objectives, the authority should have legal personality and administrative and financial autonomy. according to the basel committee on banking supervision, the authority should have powers to deal with the issue of compliance with legislation, in particular with regard to systemic and cross-border risks.
in writing. - for the effective regulation of financial and speculative markets, and in view of the circumstances which have given rise to this crisis with serious consequences for europe and developed countries, it is essential to ensure effective and efficient intervention in securities transactions, in line with the efforts of the european parliament and the other european institutions. the aim is to create a structural basis for monitoring, evaluation, monitoring and action which, within an efficient legal framework, will prevent the recurrence of situations such as those which led to the outbreak of the current economic, financial and social crisis. in this context, a european securities and markets authority, together with the appropriate legal personality, will need to be endowed with legal, administrative and financial autonomy in order to be able to ensure the safety and soundness of markets and the transparency of transactions in order to avoid new systemic risks.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. the creation of the european financial markets authority is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential that the community should supervise the financial system and that a european systemic risk board (esrb) should be set up. it is essential to create an effective supervisory system without impeding the financing of the economy, i.e. to create conditions that allow stable financing of the economy, so as to ensure sustainable growth and employment; to safeguard the single market where the eu must be provided with quality financial supervision to avoid fragmentation of the single market; to allow the eu to maintain its status to defend the euro and the other european currencies, while it is necessary that the eu maintains its status at the level at which decisions are taken, reaffirming its attachment to multilateral procedures, as in this way the eu will be better prepared to assert its values and defend its strategic interests. the establishment of the esrb represents an important innovation for macroeconomic analysis at european level, the main purpose of which is to assess systemic risks. establishing close cooperation between the esrb and, in particular, the national supervisory authorities and the european sectoral authorities is a priority for the creation of coherent supervision at the macro-micro-prudential level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i consider that the esrb's task should be to monitor and assess systemic risk at normal times, with the aim of mitigating the exposure of the system to the risk of failure of systemic components and increasing the resilience of the financial system to shocks. in this regard, the esrb should ensure financial stability and mitigate negative impacts on the internal market and the real economy. in order to achieve its objectives, the esrb should analyse all relevant information, in particular relevant legislation with potential impact on financial stability, such as accounting, bankruptcy and viability provisions. i also agree that the esrb should, where necessary, issue and make public risk warnings and make general recommendations to the union as a whole, to individual member states or groups of member states, with a defined timetable for the relevant measures. where such risk warnings or recommendations are addressed to individual member states or groups of member states, the esrb may propose appropriate support measures.
in writing. − the creation of structures capable of preventive intervention, supported by a permanent and duly substantiated assessment, should be a priority in the decision-making process and policy action of the european union in the current framework of the response to the current crisis, where it is imperative to ensure the efficiency of a community macroprudential supervision of the financial system. the european systemic risk board, by being able to monitor and assess the risks of the financial system during periods of normal operation, could be the guarantor of financial stability, which is absolutely necessary for the real economy to develop and provide growth, wealth and jobs. i would stress the rapporteur's concern to ensure a balanced and realistic proposal, through effective supervision that safeguards the financing of the economy, the single market and the interests and objectives of the european union.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. i believe that the creation of the european systemic risk board is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model and to avoid systemic risks caused by the cross-border nature of large financial groups.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i believe that a new framework for financial crisis management should be established to stabilise or liquidate institutions in difficulty in order to minimise the risks of contagion in the european financial system. i also agree that the european banking stability fund should finance the orderly winding-up or financial interventions to help financial institutions in difficulty where they may threaten the financial stability of the union's single financial market. this fund should be financed by appropriate financial contributions from the financial sector. contributions to this fund should replace contributions to national funds of a similar nature.
in writing. - i believe that in the context of the crisis, in which supervisory failures have been observed, the european authorities for banking, financial markets and insurance and supplementary retirement pensions will be able to prevent the current problems from reappearing. those authorities should be empowered to exercise more effective and efficient supervision, in particular of entities and situations involving entities with cross-border activity and the effects of which could be detrimental to the entire internal market, investors and european consumers. i believe that the national authorities should, however, continue to play a key role in relation to national financial institutions, coordinating their action with their counterparts in other member states, in particular with regard to the exchange of good practice. the commission's proposal for a financial supervision package also requires that the directives already in force and affected by these new measures be amended accordingly, for reasons of consistency with the community legal order.
in writing. − a european banking supervisory authority will consolidate the effectiveness of the deep reform of the current system of financial market supervision in which the institutions of the european union are engaged today, in order to ensure a structural basis for intervention with sufficient powers to avoid a repetition of the last global financial crisis, which would be unbearable for society and the world economy. it is absolutely inappropriate to accept a system of supervision based on the action of national authorities whose jurisdiction ends at their borders, when the market players are financial institutions whose intervention is located in the european area without borders. i therefore emphasize the rapporteur's attention to the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises and the european perspective of the proposal.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. i believe that the creation of the european banking authority is essential if we are to have an effective supervisory model.
in writing. − in order to ensure transparency and credibility of european markets and institutions with citizens, the strengthening of the powers, resources and autonomy of european supervision in insurance and pension markets is essential to ensure the effectiveness of the current reform that the institutions of the european union are committed to implement in the supervision of financial markets, in order to avoid new risks of a crisis such as the one currently affecting the global economy, with particular impact on european social reality.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has exposed major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is therefore essential to achieve an effective supervisory model.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that credit institutions and investment firms should require their employees to undertake not to use personal hedging or insurance strategies which would jeopardise the risk-alignment effects inherent in their remuneration arrangements and because i agree with the principle that the measures provided for in this directive are steps in the reform process in response to the financial crisis. in line with the conclusions of the g20, the financial stability board and the basel committee on banking supervision, further reforms may be necessary, including the need to create countercyclical buffers, dynamic provisions, the underlying bases for the calculation of capital requirements under directive 2006/48/ec and measures supplementing risk-based requirements for credit institutions, to help prevent leverage in the banking system. in order to ensure adequate democratic oversight of the process, the european parliament and the council should be effectively involved in the process in a timely manner.
in writing. − the increase in the capital of financial institutions is important so that consumers are not harmed and do not lose their investments in the event of difficulties in the institution. however, it must be borne in mind that this increase in own funds cannot be so disproportionate as to lead to a lack of liquidity by financial institutions. this would have serious consequences for the market as a whole and therefore this question should be seriously considered.
in writing. − the stability and financial sustainability of banking activity is absolutely crucial for the development of the real economy. the current global crisis has exposed the fragility of the banking system and its credibility with citizens and businesses, as well as the negative effects on europe's productive and industrial capacity and on the financial stability of the member states themselves. the financial crisis was caused by excessive risk exposure imposed by banking rules, based on extraordinary incentives for immediate results and increasingly unsustainable, in the face of insufficient own funds and deregulated uses of resources. in this context, sound and ethically sound remuneration and incentive practices in the banking sector are urgently needed to prevent policies that encourage excessive risk-taking, as well as the imposition of higher capital requirements for trading book and re-securitisations.
in writing. − it took time to adopt new rules on the limitation of bonuses, but these will only apply from january 2011 and the rules on banks' own funds only at the end of that year. this is regrettable, since they have already applied the austerity measures to the workers and the majority of the population, as is happening in portugal, greece and other countries. that is why we are voting against this double standard. but they only set stricter rules on bankers' bonuses and strengthen the rules on banks' own funds so that they are better prepared to deal with future crises. pension policy is also covered by the new legislation. if the employee leaves the credit institution before retirement, the discretionary pension benefits shall be retained by the credit institution for a period of five years in the form of contingent capital. however, it accepts that bonuses will continue even in the case of credit institutions benefiting from exceptional intervention by their governments, only these bonuses will be strictly limited to a percentage of net revenues, whenever it is incompatible with the maintenance of a sound capital base and the timely end of public support. this is unacceptable.
in writing. − every business sector should be concerned with delivering good results for its shareholders. however, the financial crisis that emerged in 2008 brought to light the fact that some financial institutions have management practices geared towards easy and short-term profit without measuring the risks that could arise for the financial health of the institution. in addition, many of these financial institutions were not properly capitalised to support their trading portfolios and re-securitisations, using uncoordinated leverage schemes that significantly increased the risks of the operations. i am voting in favour of this legislative resolution so that in future there will be no more situations of decapitalization of financial institutions and so that remuneration policies will be reviewed and put in the context of more responsible objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation, including the amendments adopted by the european parliament, because i considered that the ecb should ensure sufficient human and financial resources for the performance of secretarial tasks, ensuring a high level of staff quality, reflecting the broad scope of the esrb and the composition of its general council. the ecb shall also ensure equitable financing of the secretariat from its own resources. furthermore, i agree that all secretariat staff should be required not to disclose information subject to professional secrecy, even after their duties have ceased, in accordance with article 8 of regulation (eu) no .../2010 [esrb] in order to ensure the objective set out in article 6 of this regulation.
in writing. − the need to ensure conditions for stronger and more effective european supervision of financial markets has been the subject of a strong commitment by the european parliament, which has become more evident and valued with the development of the current economic and financial crisis. a system of supervision based on a nationalist basis, based on the individualistic logic of each member state, is proving increasingly ineffective and fallible in the face of the global dimension of financial markets, in a logic of increasingly integrated development. i therefore support this legislative resolution of the european parliament. with the appropriate technical support and drawing on the capacity and resources of the european central bank, the european systemic risk board (esrb) will undoubtedly play a decisive role in the european union in acting more rapidly and in advance by analysing information on the evolution of systems and detecting potential risks. this will be key to preventing new crises or, in the case of their inevitability, to mitigating their negative impacts and to finding ways to reverse the trend quickly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the recommendation made by parliament to the commission to submit to parliament, by 31 december 2010, in accordance with articles 50 and 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, one or more legislative proposals concerning an eu crisis management framework, an eu financial stability fund (fund) and a resolution unit, in accordance with the recommendations set out in the annex, taking into account the initiatives taken by international bodies such as the g20 and the international monetary fund to ensure a global level playing field and based on a thorough analysis of all available alternatives, including an impact assessment. i believe that the existing financial sector supervisory mechanisms at eu and international level have proven ineffective in preventing or sufficiently containing the contagion effect, that the involvement of shareholders and then creditors in burden sharing is essential to minimise the costs borne by taxpayers as a result of the crises in financial institutions and markets, and that a strong internal market for financial services is fundamental to the union's overall competitiveness.
in writing. − in the context of the crisis, i consider it important that new mechanisms are provided for which avoid considerable damage to consumers and which increase transparency and security in financial markets. i therefore support the creation of a european crisis management framework as well as a common set of rules to be followed by national supervisors. the establishment of a risk assessment panel and the criteria for such an assessment will have to be well defined ex ante and with due caution. only in this way will there be no additional risk for institutions entering any difficult phase. this cannot be aggravated by information which is known to the market in an extemporaneous manner. if that were to happen, we would risk heading for failure, which is undesirable.
in writing. − this report merely asks the commission to present, by the end of the year, one or more legislative proposals on crossborder crisis management in the banking sector, an eu financial stability fund and a crisis resolution unit, albeit accompanied by some recommendations, but always taking into account initiatives taken by international bodies such as the g20 and the international monetary fund. that is, respect for the principles of international capitalism. it is true that it recognises that eu-level regulation of crisis management in the banking sector is insufficient and that the existing supervisory mechanisms for the financial sector in the eu and internationally have proved ineffective in preventing or sufficiently containing the contagion effect. but it's the least i could say, given the obvious reality we're living in. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. but concrete and effective measures to turn words into action are still being delayed.
in writing. − the increasing economic globalisation and the cross-border nature of many of the major financial groups lead to the existence of systemic and contagion risks that were not properly addressed before the serious financial crisis that hit the world. the legislative framework now adopted should, in the event of a crisis, help safeguard financial stability, minimise the burden on taxpayers, preserve key financial services and protect depositors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it essential to ask the commission to present an impact assessment of the european financial stability facility, in particular on the functioning of the eurobond markets and their spreads; calls on the commission to further assess the feasibility and accountability of the decision-making process with regard to the special purpose vehicle (spv) with a view to a longer-term solution; and considers that all member states, in particular those that are part of the economic and monetary union (emu), should, when developing their economic policies, take into account both the effects of those policies at national level and the implications for the union and, in particular, the emu member states;
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european financial stability facility and the european financial stability mechanism and future actions, as i considered it essential to define a new framework for economic governance, which is sound, which prevents future crises and promotes sustainable economic growth in the eu.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution because it not only fails to recognise the responsibilities of the european institutions in the current crisis but persists in measures which do not address the fundamental problems facing the people, namely the workers, the unemployed and the more than 85 million people living in poverty. the resolution then insists on policies which are at the root of the present situation, with particular emphasis on strict compliance with the stability pact, the ecb and its false independence and the insistence on economic governance which is only aimed at strengthening the financial and economic groups of the great powers which already de facto dominate the european union. however, we would stress the relevance of some questions and requests for studies and information to the european commission and the ecb. but that does not solve the issues or change the policies. unfortunately, some of the more incisive and critical proposals on the role of the european commission were rejected.
in writing. − the severe financial crisis has brought to light some weaknesses in the defence of the stability of the euro. the successive attacks by speculators on the eurozone countries most exposed to the crisis revealed that the eurozone was not prepared to react in a timely manner to such attacks. this stability fund measure is essential to regain market confidence so that the euro area member states can finance themselves at competitive prices to achieve the desired exit from the crisis.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report and the opening of accession negotiations with iceland. a country with a strong democratic tradition and a high level of alignment with the acquis communautaire. as provided for in the eu treaty, any european state can apply to become a member of the union if it so wishes. their integration into the eu is dependent on compliance with and verification of the accession criteria. in this respect, iceland, as a member of the european economic area (eea) and a signatory to the schengen agreements, is already at an advanced stage of implementing the acquis. however, negotiations on key chapters not covered by the eea objectives, such as agriculture, fisheries or economic and financial policy, need to be seriously discussed in order for iceland to be able to fully meet the accession criteria. the authority also notes that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient information to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient information to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the icelandic authorities have not provided sufficient evidence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on iceland's application for membership of the european union because, given iceland's democratic culture, the possibility of iceland joining the eu could be beneficial for both sides.
in writing. - iceland is a country with a long and strong democratic tradition. i believe that the european union will be able to welcome into its fold, to the benefit of all member states, a country with an exemplary record of respect for the rule of law and deeply imbued with european culture and traditions to which it has also contributed. i believe that the union will be richer if iceland is welcomed into its fold and that, from a strategic point of view, iceland will greatly contribute to a greater presence of the union in the north atlantic and the arctic.
in writing. − the start of eu accession talks for iceland is good news for all those who argue that eu enlargement is their natural destiny. it is proven that previous enlargements have been a success not only for the eu area but also for the member states. iceland, on the other hand, is a country with which we have had a good relationship for many years, since 1973, and is also a signatory to the schengen agreement and the dublin agreement, and has therefore already adopted a significant part of the community acquis. however, there is still some work to be done, particularly in economic and financial matters and with regard to the judicial system.
mr president, the european external action service should be a decisive instrument in making the european union's foreign policy coherent, effective, legitimate and democratic. but this requires all of us - parliament, the high representative, the commission and the member states - to do our part, which has been lacking for so long. it is a question of giving practical expression to the promotion of the european union's founding values and principles, which must also guide its action in the world. peace and justice cannot be achieved without development, but development cannot exist without human rights, democracy, the rule of law, or the empowerment of women. human security and the responsibility to protect are central concepts for the use of european external action tools, from development policy to the common security and defence policy. in this sense, the european union cannot continue to do without a seat on the un security council. i hope, mrs ashton, that you will not waste time and will lead the european union to act on the urgent reform of the united nations security council.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. in 2008, there were 2.4 million new cases of people with aids, in 2008 there were also two million deaths, and every year the number is increasing. today, that's 33,400,000 people, and that's an estimate. two-thirds -- i repeat -- two-thirds of these people don't even have access to treatment. we're talking about a disease whose incidence is inversely proportional to access to treatment, and it's estimated that in sub-saharan africa, more than 22 million of the total number of people are infected. but there are still other disproportions: for example, infection in women, which is still much higher. it is urgent today, as it was yesterday and the day before, to really focus on prevention, access to treatment and a human rights-based response. we call on the commission and the council to take up the commitments they have made and to look at aids as a global public health priority. we therefore need policies to reduce vulnerability and to combat various types of discrimination, from those infected to those within the european area itself, from blood donors simply because they have a sexual orientation different from the norm. the existing support has therefore clearly proved insufficient, the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria needs to be strengthened, and it must be acknowledged that the widespread cut in funding for sexual and reproductive health programmes in developing countries has only made the situation worse. this europe, which we are proud to be the champion of development aid, cannot have two faces, and we are talking about all of us.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam high representative, cluster munitions destroy lives and the environment in a disproportionate and immoral way, without distinguishing between military targets and civilians in theatres of armed conflict. the idea that these weapons provide security for the states that possess them is false, backward, in violation of international humanitarian law and a threat to global security. and it is countries and people in developing countries who are the main victims of these weapons. the convention on cluster munitions obliges states parties to progressively destroy stockpiles, holds them responsible for the disposal of unexploded ordnance and for the protection and support of victims. the convention enters into force on 1 august and has so far been ratified by only 11 eu member states. it is urgent that we all do so so that we can effectively contribute to stopping the use, sale and transfer of these weapons, universally, and achieve their complete prohibition and elimination. nine other eu states have already acceded to the convention but are delaying ratification. my country, portugal, was one of those caught in the web of legislative delays after signing the convention in december 2008. almost two years later, the assembly of the republic has still not been called upon to give its opinion. the slowdown is all the more embarrassing as portugal has made a positive effort to promote the convention to other portuguese-speaking countries, and today guinea-bissau and cape verde announce ratification for next august, in time for the entry into force of the convention and even before portugal. any delay in ratifying this convention is unacceptable. that is why we are also calling on the high representative for foreign affairs, mrs ashton, to initiate the process of getting the european union to accede to the convention on cluster munitions, as the lisbon treaty makes possible. the european union must be at the forefront of this process and the seven member states which have not yet signed the convention must be held accountable, as is the case in this european parliament resolution in which we name them.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. previous cap reforms have led to the liberalisation of agricultural markets. they have committed gross injustices in the distribution of aid between countries, production and producers. they have dismantled the instruments of production regulation, such as quotas and production rights, and the mechanisms of intervention and market regulation. they brought agriculture under the rules of the wto, where it was used as a bargaining chip for other interests. the result is in sight: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide aid to the countries of the mediterranean, in particular the countries of the mediterranean basin, the mediterranean basin and the mediterranean basin. this calls for a major overhaul of the cap to ensure food security and food sovereignty, giving priority to the need for countries and regions to develop their production to meet their needs, while promoting environmental sustainability and rural development; the commission has also proposed that the community should promote the diversification of production and avoid its narrowing, while recognising the specificities of the different sectors and regions; that, by modelling and capping aid, it should overcome the current imbalances between productions, producers and countries. finally, it should provide for intervention mechanisms to guarantee fair prices for production and provide farmers with incomes that guarantee continuity of production and regularity of food supply.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists and democrats are particularly pleased to see their main proposals reflected in the lyon report: 80 to 90% of our amendments were considered and we were able to support 49 of the 50 commitments voted for in the committee on agriculture. we are particularly pleased that the lyon report clearly states the will to maintain the genuine community character of the cap and that the cap must continue to have an adequate budget. the condemnation of the historical criterion for granting aid to farmers and its replacement by new criteria, mainly of an environmental nature, the intention to redistribute support more fairly and equitably between farmers and member states, as has already been reiterated by several colleagues here, the recognition that market regulation and risk and crisis management should have appropriate policy instruments. a new legitimization of aid, based on compensation for the provision of services and public goods, which benefit society as a whole and are not remunerated by the market. the commission thus has a lot of inspiration for its communication in november, and i am pleased that the commissioner has already indicated his willingness to accept our recommendations. i hope that in six months' time i will be able to congratulate commissioner ciolos with the same satisfaction with which i congratulate my colleague mr lyon today on his excellent work, which dignifies and strengthens the role of parliament at the very moment when, with the lisbon treaty, we are responsibly assuming powers of codecision.
mr president, we also advocate a strong common agricultural policy, aimed not only at farmers but also at the more than 500 million citizens of europe, with an ambitious budget, able to respond to the increasing challenges we face and, above all, practiced in all regions of europe. ensuring this is fundamental for the azores, whose agriculture is an irreplaceable pillar of its sustainable development model. this new cap must abandon the historical criteria for allocating funds, which have seriously harmed portugal and portuguese farmers. the new cap must take account of the specific nature of agriculture, ensuring a set of market regulation and risk management tools capable of ensuring the proper functioning of the market and the stability of agricultural production. the cap post-2013 should enhance the competitiveness of the european agricultural model by ensuring the correct distribution of value generated in the relationships established along the food chain in the internal market and by opening up external markets (...) (the president cut the speaker off)
the european union is a strategic partner of latin america in general and the mercosur countries in particular, and they share a common history and civilizational values with us. it is also a geopolitical space where freedom, democracy and respect for human rights have made remarkable progress. it makes perfect sense, therefore, to deepen political and cultural ties and to take advantage of mutual economic advantages. i therefore welcome the european decision to reopen negotiations on the association agreement with mercosur, even though i regret and condemn the recent protectionist acts of argentina, which are in complete contrast to the spirit of openness shown by the european side. however, i cannot fail to warn the commission of the potentially negative consequences for the european agricultural sector if this negotiation is not properly conducted. we all know the scale of the imbalance in our trade balance with mercosur and the production conditions and demands placed on farmers on both sides of the atlantic. for this reason, in addition to the questions which have been formally put in writing, in particular as regards how the commission intends to approach the question of sensitive products, i would like to know how it intends to react to argentina's understandable gesture.
the first eu-brazil summit, organised by the portuguese presidency in 2007, filled an unexplained gap. brazil was the only bric country with which europe did not have a strategic partnership. strengthening the eu-brazil dialogue makes perfect sense as it allows for deeper cooperation in key sectors such as energy security and sustainable development, biodiversity and climate change, etc. brazil's demographic weight, economic development and political stability make it an unavoidable player on the international scene. as we look ahead to the 4th eu-brazil summit, it is important to take stock of the progress made and to look at how we can develop this partnership to address common challenges and to harmonise positions, for example with a view to the united nations climate change conference in mexico later this year. the summit is also an opportunity to move forward the negotiations with mercosur towards the conclusion of an association agreement and to overcome existing differences.
the resumption of negotiations in september between mercosur and the eu is a process of the utmost importance for the eu. on the one hand, in a multipolar world in which the bric countries are gaining increasing weight, it is essential for the eu to establish a privileged relationship with the countries of latin america, where it holds more investment than in russia, india and china combined, which would ensure, with a privileged trade relationship, the consolidation of a huge economic advantage on a global scale. on the other hand, we have the level of trade openness for agricultural goods and the definition of the sanitary and phytosanitary rules necessary for trade between the blocs. the competitiveness of mercosur on agricultural markets has been strengthened and increased in recent years, and an impact study on the consequences of an agreement for european agricultural activity, which is in no way in a position to suffer further shocks at the moment, is therefore essential. we must not therefore rush into a process of too rapid conclusion which does not take into account any negative impacts on european agriculture, nor into excessive protectionism which jeopardises the important position which the union can secure in this part of the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this simple fact illustrates the importance of the report by mr cadec, with whom i had the pleasure of working as shadow rapporteur in the search for the widest possible consensus in defence of the sector, the jobs it creates and, above all, european consumers. the socialist and democratic group therefore agrees with the report's essential assumptions and conclusions, particularly with regard to the concerns and recommendations concerning the need to ensure the quality and health of imported fishery and aquaculture products and the environmental criteria which should be required for the capture, production and processing of these products. the report addresses, in a correct and equally worthy way, other issues which i cannot now, for lack of time, explain. for these reasons, my group will of course vote in favour of the report. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr cadec on the excellent work he has done.
mr president, commissioner, europe is now the largest european market for fishery and aquaculture products, importing some 60% of the fish consumed. the community's fish production is not, and will not be in the near future, sufficient to meet the demand for this type of product, so that recourse to imports becomes a necessity. in this context, two fundamental aspects must be safeguarded. firstly, the creation of the conditions necessary to guarantee the community consumer access to imported quality fishery and aquaculture products. secondly, the establishment of a framework of fair competition, both for imported products and for those produced and caught by the european fisheries and aquaculture sectors. fishery and aquaculture products imported into the european union must therefore meet the same environmental, social, health and quality requirements as community production. the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products also needs to be reformed, in particular the mechanisms used to counter phenomena such as the gradual abolition of customs duties and increasing competition from imports. this report from the european parliament, which has been conducted in an exemplary manner by my colleague alain cadec, is timely and contains a number of important proposals for the sustainable development of fisheries and related sectors, including marketing.
mr president, i call your attention to an amendment to this report that asks for the council and the commission to deal with parliament in the appointment of the eu official to be posted to washington to control the extraction of data. i kindly ask that you personally get in touch with the council and the commission as soon as possible in order to do this with proper parliamentary oversight.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this agreement on the transfer of bank data to the united states provides for the eu to develop a system to prevent any transfer of raw data, which was not the case in the previous agreement.
in writing. - in february i voted against the agreement because it violated the principles of necessity and proportionality, and the integrity and security of european financial data. this new agreement is better than the old one. improvements such as a narrower definition of terrorism, the deletion of sepa data, the monitoring mechanism and the recognition of rights for european citizens. however, the agreement still allows for the transfer of bulk data. the choice of europol is wrong. europol is neither a judicial authority nor a data protection authority. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the wording of article 20 of the agreement jeopardises the effectiveness of the recognition of the various rights which were eventually included at the request of the ep. i look forward to the commission's initiative to create a european tftp, and that this will prove to be a more robust solution and allow data mining to take place only within the eu. for all these reasons i have decided to abstain from voting, because in good conscience i cannot yet accept that this agreement has reached an acceptable level.
in writing. - the fight against terrorism must be a priority for the european union. in this regard, proactive cooperation with the united states of america, including the sharing of information and data, is key to increasing the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, to preventing future attacks and to ensuring the security of european citizens. i therefore vote in favour of most of the measures proposed in this report. the amendments to this agreement not only reflect most of the concerns expressed by the european parliament when it rejected it on 11 february, but also express the need for and proportionality of the processing of data, particularly as regards their processing, storage and subsequent disposal. i would also like to stress the enhanced guarantees that this new agreement gives european citizens in the field of data protection, in particular the right of appeal against judicial and administrative decisions, transparency and the provision of information to the citizens concerned and the definition of the scope of the data, limited to behaviour directly related to terrorism or its financing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the swift agreement on the transfer of banking data to the united states because i believe that the agreement negotiated with the council and the united states now includes safeguards on the protection of citizens' data, eliminating the possibility of transferring raw data to third countries. this is an important agreement in the fight against terrorism, which ensures the protection of the fundamental freedoms of european citizens.
in writing. − the phenomenon of terrorism and its growing impact on european societies place particular stress on such essential values as respect for individual privacy and the need to safeguard collective security. in this context, the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on data processing merited the prior disapproval of this house, which did not consider it adequate enough. the new version is an improvement on the previous one. i hope that this agreement will state the reasons for its conclusion and that the parties to it will be able to interpret its provisions properly in such a way as to hinder and combat the financial activities of terrorists.
in writing. - the development of this process is a positive demonstration of the benefits and advantages of institutional cooperation for the successful consolidation of european integration. following the concerns and recommendations expressed by the european parliament, a balanced agreement was reached with the united states of america on the transfer and processing of financial payment message data, especially in view of the fact that this is a process for the purposes of the terrorist financing detection programme. i would stress that the rights of citizens, the conditions for possible transfers to third countries and the risks of improper data extraction and economic espionage are safeguarded. the possibility of correcting data transmission situations that are subsequently detected as incorrect is also guaranteed. this agreement ensures better regulation of procedures and fruitful and healthy cooperation for the institutional relationship with the usa.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is regrettable that the majority of the ep has now voted for this agreement. the exchange and access to databases by both us authorities and eu agencies is proving highly uncertain, with uncontrollable risks. criminals and innocents, suspects and unsuspecting, all enter a process that does not, as has been demonstrated, ensure its effectiveness. the implementation of this agreement, as we have said before, means the continuation of the wrong measures that have been taken in the so-called fight against terrorism with a view to the suppression of rights. we support the need to combat all forms of crime, but this must be done primarily by preventing and preventing such phenomena, and not by increasing the security gap that undermines public freedoms and the fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens, further impoverishing the democracy we have. we will not trade freedom for more security, because in the end we will lose both. we are rather in favour of a more secure society with broad democratic rights and freedoms.
in writing. - the fight against terrorism is a concern of the eu as well as of the whole democratic world. all the mechanisms that help to detect possible attacks are paramount to the success of this fight. the swift agreement is a very powerful instrument in the fight against terrorism, as it allows access to inside financial information regarding transfers of funds between countries. the renegotiation of this agreement with the us is a unique opportunity for the eu to contribute effectively to the detection of new terrorists and potential attacks. there is now a great desire for cooperation on the part of the united states, which is a potential agreement that effectively protects the data transmitted and where there is the greatest possible reciprocity. the draft resolution adopted today is a good starting point for the difficult negotiations with the united states that lie ahead.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i am in tune with the agreement reached and cannot fail to fulfil my duty and responsibility to support the agreement negotiated between the ec and the usa. we are aware of the need to balance respect for individual privacy with the need to safeguard collective security, but the phenomenon of terrorism, with which many of our fellow citizens live daily, requires extraordinary measures. i must say that because i was involved in the internal electoral process of my national party (psd), i was unable to vote in favour of the previous agreement, as i had intended. i am aware of the sensitivity of this issue in europe, which is the result of very significant experiences of totalitarian regimes which, without any legitimacy, invade the privacy of their citizens. that's not the case. we are rightly fighting new and ever more innovative forms of terrorism, with the sole purpose of ensuring the protection of the fundamental freedoms of european citizens. the current agreement allows for the transfer of banking information, but provides adequate security and privacy safeguards. it lays down strict rules for the protection of personal data, making access conditional on the submission of evidence from counter-terrorism investigations by the competent authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the organisation and functioning of the european external action service. this is a very important step towards strengthening europe's role in the world and coordinating the external relations policies of the 27 member states. in its negotiations with the council and the commission, the european parliament has seen the community dimension of the external action service strengthened, leading to an increased role for parliament itself in the political and budgetary dimension of this new body.
in writing. - i was very pleased to vote in favour of the brok report. after a few months of debate in parliament, with the council and the commission, the negotiations finally came to a head. i now hope that the eeas will apply the charter of fundamental rights in accordance with the spirit and purpose of the lisbon treaty, that the community method will be given priority in the development policies and the programming of the union's external aid and that the member states (and more specifically some of the foreign ministers of some member states...) will take up the creation of this new body and the new powers and responsibilities conferred on the high representative by virtue of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i also hope that what some member states or government officials in those countries consider to be interference in their sphere of competence as a nation or government will not continue. and that the portuguese government should strive for a representativeness which will give us a reputation for quality, the powers assigned and the proportionate number of national agents involved. as meps, we do not want a service that is the result of intergovernmental balances alone, we want a service of the union!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the organisation and functioning of the european external action service (eeas), as the agreement reached strengthens the eeas's community identity and its political and budgetary accountability to the european parliament.
in writing. − in november 2006, parliament adopted a resolution recognising the strategic importance of the european languages of universal communication - english, spanish, portuguese and french - in order of the number of speakers - as a means of communication and as a form of solidarity, cooperation and economic investment, and the european commission recognised in 2008 that these languages are an important bridge between the peoples and nations of the different regions of the world. when the organisation and functioning of the eeas is established, i believe it is essential that it makes the most of the communication capacity of these global european languages and adopts them as working languages. the linguistic regime and practice which govern this service will determine the extent to which it is used for communication with the outside world. that said, i can only rejoice at the establishment of the eeas and hope that it will produce results that meet the expectations placed in it. the european union will have much to gain from a competent and efficient eeas, able to be its voice in the world and to cooperate actively with the diplomatic services of the member states.
in writing. − the purpose of this decision is to establish the organisation and functioning of the european external action service (eeas), a functionally autonomous body of the union under the authority of the high representative, established by article 27 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), as amended by the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament also has a role to play in the union's external action policy, in particular with regard to its political control functions (as provided for in article 14 (1) teu) and its legislative and budgetary functions as laid down in the treaties. the high representative must also regularly consult the european parliament on the main aspects and the basic options of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and must ensure that parliament's positions are duly taken into account. the eeas shall assist the high representative in this task. specific provisions should be laid down regarding access by members of the european parliament to confidential documents and information in the field of the cfsp. i have no objections to this, and i have voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. - we voted against this report, which is the result of negotiations between the council and the majority of parliament on one of the central points of the lisbon treaty and a key element in the federalism of the european union, which has now become a legal personality, as they advocated in the european constitution. it is noted that this service will involve more than five thousand people in eu embassies in various countries around the world. to make matters worse, we note that no proposals from our group were put forward, in particular those which advocated that the eu's military structures should not be part of the european external action service or even have any institutional link. the same was true of the eu's secret intelligence structures. it is also particularly worrying that the proposal we tabled calling on the council to cease development and to abolish military and civilian-military structures under its jurisdiction and to cease financing military and civilian-military activities has been rejected. the future of the european union and the paths it intends to take are therefore of great concern.
in writing. - the adoption of the treaty of lisbon led to the creation of the european external action service, thus laying the foundations for a strong european diplomatic service. the establishment of the eeas is intended to ensure the coherence of european external action and the conduct of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp).
in writing. - as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, where the european external action service was widely discussed and where i was able to express my views, and as a member of the epp, i give my support and vote in favour of this report. the european parliament presented a united position among political groups, which had a common interest in making the most of the new powers that the treaty of lisbon conferred in particular on this house, both in terms of political control and financial control of the european external action service. i repeat my initial concern, which i have constantly expressed, including through amendments to the draft reports, and which is related to the need to ensure the geopolitical balance of the european external action service which is now being set up. i would stress the high representative's commitment to the creation of a team based on geographical balance, with representatives from all 27 member states, banning any kind of discrimination and also promoting equality.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution! this resolution, the analysis of the situation and the paths indicated show how right those who opposed the secession of kosovo were!
in writing. - kosovo has not yet been unanimously recognised by the member states, and the caution that some still have towards the new country is certainly politically and strategically motivated, but also more practical, based on the worrying prevalence of corruption and organised crime in that territory, which prevents kosovo from being able to properly claim to be a state governed by the rule of law. like other states in the balkan region, it would be good if kosovo could prove that it has embarked on a path of no return in adopting policies and reforms which, on the one hand, confirm its european option and, on the other, strengthen its own political body, by rooting in its citizens the practice and exercise of democracy and the rejection of violence, particularly of an ethnic nature, as a means of conflict resolution. kosovo still has a long way to go.
in writing. − this resolution takes note of the declaration of independence of kosovo of 17 february 2008, which has been recognised by 69 countries, and encourages member states to cooperate in their common approach towards kosovo with a view to kosovo's accession to the eu. i believe that, despite the very difficult legacy of the armed conflict, the prospect of eu membership is a powerful incentive for the necessary reforms in kosovo, and i call for practical steps to be taken to make this prospect more tangible for citizens through the application of human rights and the strengthening of the rule of law.
in writing. - the simple fact that several eu member states have not yet recognised kosovo's independence is enough to show how unacceptable the content of this resolution is. the majority of this parliament is unfortunately giving cover, once again, to an act which is illegal under international law. as stated in the amendment tabled by the gue/ngl and rejected by the majority, the restoration of dialogue and negotiations, in accordance with international law, is the only way to bring about stability and lasting peace in the region.
in writing. − regional stability and eu integration of the countries of the western balkans region have always been one of the eu's priorities. in this difficult process, there are countries in the region which have been moving closer to the eu more rapidly, such as serbia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and montenegro. for various reasons, kosovo has been slow to move closer to the eu, and its citizens are not yet able to travel to the eu without a visa. it is urgent to overcome this situation quickly, and this effort will depend solely and exclusively on kosovo, which will have to implement the necessary reforms to this end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that albania must continue on its path towards possible eu integration. the union must pursue its enlargement strategy in a gradual and rigorous manner. it should also act as a catalyst for major reforms in the countries which are candidates or potential candidates for membership of the union. however, we all know that the road to membership of the union is quite demanding. the rules that lead countries to the eu are clear and well known, but not always easy to follow. in the case of albania, as this report clearly shows, there is still a long way to go. and, of course, the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria, including the process of stabilising democratic institutions. in this connection, i would like to underline and support the efforts of prime minister sali berisha to find an effective solution to the current political crisis, and at the same time criticise the disgraceful behaviour of the socialist opposition. the pace at which each country progresses on its path to the european union is therefore determined by the candidate or potential candidate country itself. i hope that albania will continue its path towards the union with determination and without hesitation.
in writing. - albania is not exempt from the rule of instability in the western balkans and is experiencing a political crisis which threatens to undermine the reforms undertaken in the meantime, which were largely aimed at a growing rapprochement with the european union. if the days of the dictatorship of henver hoxa are long gone, it must be admitted that albania offers little guarantee that it can persevere on the path it has taken and raise its levels of development and respect for the rule of law and individual freedoms to levels acceptable in the light of european standards. the european union is not yet ready to accept albania as a strong candidate for membership.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated and coordinated. i believe that the prospect of integration into the european union is driving a number of reforms in the western balkans region and should play a positive role in the capacity to strengthen peace, stability and conflict prevention in the region, by strengthening good neighbourly relations and responding to economic and social needs through sustainable development. the progress of each country towards accession to the european union depends, however, on its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria and the conditions set out in the stabilisation and association process, which i hope will be successfully met by that country.
in writing. − regional stability and eu integration of the countries of the western balkans region have always been one of the eu's priorities. the prospect of eu integration therefore leads the countries of the region to make an extra effort to implement the reforms needed to achieve the proposed goals, which will allow them to become full eu members. the efforts of these countries to strengthen peace, stability and conflict prevention in the region by strengthening good neighbourly relations are noteworthy. albania is in an advanced stage of integration and has even completed the commission's questionnaire for the preparation of the opinion on albania's application for accession to the european union.
in writing. −despite successes at the formal political level, kyrgyzstan remains mired in instability and conflict and shows no signs of stabilizing anytime soon. this country, which achieved independence after the collapse of the soviet empire, has proved incapable of adopting the best standards of human rights and respect for individual freedoms. i believe that the european union can play a role of stabilizer and mediator and that, in a situation of effective post-conflict, it should actively contribute to the difficult task of effective pacification and democratization of a country with russia and china as neighbours.
in writing. - the european parliament expresses its deep concern at the tragic and violent clashes that have recently erupted in kyrgyzstan and conveys its condolences to the families of all the victims. i would stress the call in this resolution for every effort to be made to return the situation to normal and to create the necessary conditions for refugees and internally displaced persons to be able to return to their homes voluntarily, safely and with dignity. the commission is also asked to step up humanitarian assistance in cooperation with international organisations and to launch short and medium-term programmes to rebuild destroyed houses and replace lost property, as well as rehabilitation projects, in collaboration with the kyrgyz authorities and other donors, to create favourable conditions for the return of refugees and internally displaced persons.
in writing. - i am deeply concerned about the violent clashes which have recently occurred in the cities of osh and jalal-abad in southern kyrgyzstan. so, and given the commitments the eu has made to that region, particularly through its central asia strategy, we have to make a strong commitment to help kyrgyzstan. the seriousness of the situation calls for a substantial increase in eu humanitarian aid to all those affected by the severe fighting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on hiv/aids in view of the 18th international aids conference, because there is a need to step up efforts to address hiv/aids as a global public health priority and to facilitate universal access to health care, education and employment for people affected by this virus. it is essential to combat stigmatisation and discrimination against people living with hiv/aids and to ensure that their rights are protected.
in writing. - a matter such as this should have been the subject of broad consensus among the political groups, which should have refrained from seeking to use it in favour of this or that agenda. the fact that there is a joint motion for a resolution which has only been endorsed by the left and far-left parties in parliament makes it clear that this objective has been unfortunately called into question. it is the people, their illness and the suffering that comes with it and the impact it has on societies, particularly the less developed ones, that should be concerned. it is for them that we must work to find the best solutions to combat this scourge and to mitigate its effects.
in writing. - the scourge of aids remains a serious humanitarian problem of global dimension, which therefore requires an integrated response of global scope, involving states, institutions and societies in different regions and continents. the social stigma that persists on this issue and the continued spread of the disease, with a high mortality rate, particularly devastating effects in the underdeveloped countries and with greater humanitarian needs, must necessarily mobilize the concern and commitment of the eu institutions and the member states to provide effective resources for a comprehensive and effective response, capable of ensuring the necessary reconciliation of policies to prevent and promote the appropriate treatment of the disease. i do not agree, however, with the association between a sensitive issue such as abortion and the fight against hiv.
in writing. − the resolution takes a comprehensive approach to hiv/aids, supported by current data. the essential issues raised, which we naturally support, are, among many others, the following: - the defence of universal access to health care and the demand that governments fulfil their obligation to provide a public health service for all; - the need to promote, protect and respect the human rights, including the sexual and reproductive health rights, of people living with hiv/aids; - the need to draw attention to the economic, legal, social and technical barriers, as well as legislation and punitive measures, which prevent effective responses to hiv; - the need for fair and flexible funding for research into new preventive technologies, including vaccines and microbicides; - the call on member states and the commission to reverse the worrying decline in funding for the promotion of sexual and reproductive health and rights in developing countries.
in writing. − hiv/aids remains one of the leading causes of death worldwide, killing 2 million people in 2008, and is projected to remain an unavoidable cause of premature mortality worldwide for decades to come. the number of new infections continues to outstrip the expansion of treatment, when two-thirds of the people who needed treatment in 2009 have not yet received it, meaning that 10 million people in need have not had access to the necessary effective treatment. i therefore believe that the eu should make every effort to invest more in research, treatment and education in order to improve the whole picture. the end of stigmatisation and discrimination against people living with hiv/aids should also be promoted. i also believe that the eu should be particularly sensitive to the problem in sub-saharan africa, where 22.4 million people are hiv positive and continue to be the most affected region.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am submitting this explanation of vote because, although i voted in favour of most of the points, i wish to stress my abstention on point 17. i abstained, only because the french version - unlike the portuguese - indicated the possibility that sexual and reproductive health could include the acceptance of abortion as a means of promoting it. as a defender of the right to life, i could not in good conscience vote in favour. i would stress that the use of sexual and reproductive health language cannot become a way of persuading parliaments to promote abortion. i would like to reiterate, however, my full commitment to the fight against aids/hiv.
in writing. - all countries with a memory of war are aware of the devastating consequences of cluster munitions. the european parliament's support for its prohibition and eradication is fully justified. i am afraid, however, that the willingness of politicians and the ratification of the convention by some states may not be enough to achieve the desired results quickly. that said, this is undeniably an important step in the right direction, which the european union and its member states have a duty to support.
in writing. - having regard to the inalienable role of the european union in the defence of peace, security, respect for freedom, life and human rights and the quality of life of the population, i support this resolution, stressing the need for a positive and rapid response from all member states to the call for them to sign and ratify without delay the convention on cluster munitions. i am concerned that cluster munitions have a wide-ranging lethal effect and pose a serious risk to the civilian population, including in post-conflict periods. unfortunately, children are the main victims of this type of explosive material. i support europe's commitment to combating the proliferation of weapons of indiscriminate destruction and i hope that the member states and the eu institutions will take coherent and determined action in relation to third countries in this area.
in writing. − the signature of the convention on cluster munitions by 20 member states demonstrates the eu's commitment to combating the proliferation of weapons that kill indiscriminately. we must not forget that these weapons are the main cause of the deaths of thousands of civilians, indiscriminately killing, in particular, children or other innocent people who are unaware of the danger.
in writing. - this report places agricultural policy in a strategic role in terms of food security and sustainable development. the development of green technologies in the agricultural sector has a high potential for job creation and these technologies will contribute decisively to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. in this report, the european parliament set out its position on the reform and financing of the cap post-2013. the report also addresses the interlinkages between agricultural policy and the fight against climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future of the cap after 2013 because it is necessary to strengthen the cap policies and ensure an adequate budget in order to respond to the challenges facing european agriculture, such as climate change, food safety and quality and the competitiveness of the sector.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. the proposal also implies a greater procedural difficulty in the future distribution of community funds to farmers, although the present system itself needs greater simplification, not the other way around. it should also be stressed that the portuguese state has unfortunately been wasting hundreds of millions of euros of funds from the first pillar. with the abolition of the second pillar and the transfer of some measures from the second to the first, many of the measures currently supported would no longer be supported, particularly because of the obvious budgetary impossibility, leading to a weakening of the common agricultural policy. in fact, the advantage of any possible transfer of cap funds to other policies is not understood. on the contrary, we are in favour of measures to ensure that the only truly common policy in the eu is maintained.
in writing. - the cap has increased productivity, ensured security of supply and provided consumers with quality food at reasonable prices. the new cap will have to face new and unforeseen challenges and provide a framework for the future based on stability, predictability and flexibility in times of crisis. the cap reform must be reviewed in the context of the economic crisis and the fight against climate change, while maintaining its competitiveness in the global context. the agricultural sector is expected to be in a position to make a significant contribution to the priorities of the new europe 2020 strategy on combating climate change, innovation and job creation through green growth, while continuing to ensure food security for european consumers through the production of safe and high-quality food. however, i believe that the cap should give priority to the production of so-called first generation public goods and to food sovereignty as a guiding principle, so that the member states are self-sufficient. i also support the regulation of the milk market from production to marketing. in this context i consider it essential to maintain milk quotas.
in writing. − the fundamental change that is urgently needed in the common agricultural policy should, among other things, introduce the principle of the right to food and food sovereignty, give priority to food self-sufficiency and the ability of countries and regions to develop their production to meet national or regional food needs; support activities that promote local production and respect the local environment, protect soil and water, increase the production of non-gmo food and promote seed biodiversity for farmers and the diversity of livestock species. that is the content of one of the amendments we have tabled to the report under discussion. the rejection of this amendment and the principles contained in it by the main political groups in this parliament is indicative of the path they intend to take. the report also points to this. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the cap is not subject to the same rules as other agricultural products, and that the cap is not subject to the same rules as other agricultural products. that is unacceptable to us.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. the proposal also implies a greater procedural difficulty in the future distribution of community funds to farmers, although the present system itself needs greater simplification, not the other way around. it should also be stressed that the portuguese state has unfortunately been wasting hundreds of millions of euros of funds from the first pillar. with the abolition of the second pillar and the transfer of some measures from the second to the first, many of the measures currently supported would no longer be supported, particularly because of the obvious budgetary impossibility, leading to a weakening of the common agricultural policy. in fact, the advantage of any possible transfer of cap funds to other policies is not understood. on the contrary, we are in favour of measures to ensure that the only truly common policy in the eu is maintained.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the lyon report by the european parliament, which is the result of the excellent work of its rapporteur, assisted by the shadow rapporteurs, and also of the contribution of all the colleagues who tabled amendments, took part in the debate and tried to build consensus. this report does indeed reflect the consensus that can be reached between members from the 27 member states and from different political families, which is significant in itself, and even more so in the context of the ep's new co-decision powers. the report, which is the final result of several rounds of negotiations, takes a number of structural positions for the future cap, which we consider to be fundamental: not to reduce the budget, not to renationalize the cap, to maintain the two pillars of the cap, to implement a new system for the distribution of aid, to divide between first and second generation public goods, not to render unworkable the decision on the dismantling of milk quotas, which will be repealed by the council, the need for a safety net, the need for greater transparency in the food chain and the need to simplify the cap. it is now necessary to continue monitoring the internal work of the european commission until the publication of the final communication in november.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, but i am making this declaration of vote to underline that in paragraph 44, on market management, i voted against the first part of the paragraph proposed by the rapporteur and in favour of the second part of the same paragraph, thus decisively affecting the decision of the european parliament in the light of portugal's strategic interests. the version proposed by the rapporteur, although broadly interpreted, would allow the dismantling of milk quotas to be brought forward. i know and support the position of the portuguese agricultural sector, which has reiterated its conviction that the end of the milk quota system could be a major penalty for portuguese producers. in fact, 93% of milk produced in the eu is traded on the european market and represents a significant share of the revenues of eu dairy companies. milk quotas have enabled milk production to be maintained and developed in a sustained manner in the 27 member states, contributing to the matching of supply and demand (european and international) in the dairy sector and allowing price stability and sustainable incomes. the dismantling of this system without an alternative proposal will lead to the abandonment of production in the countries where it is least competitive, a category in which portugal falls.
in writing. - i supported this report because it is a strategic element for countries like portugal and for the outermost regions of europe, and it was a remarkable effort on the part of parliament to vote on it in this first year of the legislature. the common agricultural policy is a key part of the financial and budgetary framework of the european union for the period after 2013 and deserves a detailed analysis. internal agricultural production, which can make a major contribution to reducing member states' trade deficits, food security and trade with third countries are key aspects of this policy. european farmers produce foodstuffs of high safety and quality, with strict environmental and animal protection clauses, and they should be rewarded for this and not harmed. to this end, it should be ensured that conditions are imposed on third countries with which the union has trade agreements which are similar to those imposed on producers in the european internal market. i also think that we need an agricultural budget which allocates its funds fairly and with special attention to regions such as madeira and the azores, which face permanent constraints due to their peripheral location, insularity, small area, adverse climate and geographical situation and which must therefore receive permanent support.
in writing. − the report deals with imports of fishery and aquaculture products into the eu and the conditions under which they must take place. imported products must meet the same quality criteria as those produced in the eu. the report calls for the creation of an eco-label for fishery products. this would provide consumers with information on the origin of the product and the health, social and environmental conditions under which the product was fished.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the import regime for fishery and aquaculture products into the eu in the context of the future reform of the cfp, as i believe that issues relating to imports of fishery and aquaculture products into the eu should be given very particular attention in the context of the ongoing reforms of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - after having voted on the guido milana report on a new impetus for the strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture at the last part-session, we are now called upon to vote on another one on the import regime for fisheries and aquaculture products. according to the report, europe now imports 60% of the fish it consumes. in addition, by 2030 consumption growth is expected, which will be almost entirely covered by increased imports. while it is not intended that european production should be able to meet our demand needs (which would be impossible, both now and in the future), the truth is that the future reform of the cfp cannot fail to look at the question of imports and to try to give it the most appropriate response, either by increasing european production (not only by increasing catches but also by focusing on aquaculture), or by requiring that imported fish comply with the same standards as those caught or produced in the union, or even by providing adequate information to the consumer on the origin of the fish. this is a question which, as the rapporteur rightly argues, will have to be given serious consideration in the reform of the cfp.
in writing. − the eu market, at around 12 million tonnes and €55 billion in 2007, is the world's largest market for fishery and aquaculture products (faps), ahead of japan and the united states. this market, which has been growing strongly since 2005, is increasingly dependent on imports, to the extent that the consumption coverage rate of the community production is now below 40%, i.e. an import dependency rate of more than 60%. consumption forecasts indicate that demand could increase by approximately 1 500 000 tonnes by 2030 and that this increase would be almost entirely covered by additional imports. as i said in the june plenary session, i am in favour of a proposal for a regulation which consolidates in a single text all the community provisions governing the aquaculture sector. in this context, and given that portugal is the largest fish consumer per capita in europe, i would advocate that aquaculture be made a strategic priority for the eu. i am therefore particularly pleased that the commission is advocating a sustainable aquaculture policy to reduce import dependence in the amp sector.
in writing. - the work of data collection and systematisation made possible by the preparation of this report should be valued, as it helps us to have an up-to-date picture of a situation which is, from several points of view, worrying, as the report rightly acknowledges. the existence of economically, environmentally and socially sustainable fisheries and aquaculture sectors in eu countries is incompatible with the trade policy that the eu has been pursuing. by deregulating and liberalizing international trade, and by turning it towards a logic of competition rather than the logic of complementarity which should govern it, the interests of importers and distributors are being promoted, but at the same time thousands of producers are being condemned to ruin and abandonment, food balance deficits are being increased and basic criteria of quality, food safety and the environment are being called into question. the fisheries and aquaculture sectors (like agriculture) are strategically vital sectors which are not compatible with a mercantilist approach and trade regulation is required, including the possibility of using trade defence instruments as suggested in the report. we also stress the need for urgent reform of the common organisation of the market in fishery products, which we also support.
in writing. − as the world's largest importer of fishery products, the eu market has a political responsibility, along with other major fishery importers, to ensure that wto trade rules are in line with global standards for fisheries conservation and management. the eu must join forces to increase aquaculture fish production in a sustainable way in order to reduce fish imports in the amp sector. i am particularly concerned about the possibility of importing and marketing genetically modified fish, which i believe should be banned from being marketed in the eu. i therefore advocate a strict certification policy which can effectively control these problems. i also support the idea of putting a strong emphasis on research and development in european aquaculture, which accounts for only 2% of world production.
in writing. the community strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture was recently adopted. of course, it is now urgent to regulate the issue of imports of fishery and aquaculture products, as the eu is currently the world's largest market for ppa, but does not have sufficient production to meet demand and is therefore dependent on these imports. it is therefore necessary to regulate the way in which they are made, in order to ensure that the quality and good practice required of community producers is also required of third countries. i agree with the rapporteur on the question of customs protection. it does not seem to me feasible, especially in the present period, that tariffs can be abolished and yet our producers can be expected to survive and be competitive with third parties. as i have already mentioned, the issue of fisheries and aquaculture is one of the priorities set by madeira in the current esdp, so the region is in the process of promoting the competitiveness of the sector through sustainable management of resources, diversification of fish production, the enhancement of products from a quality perspective and the qualification of fishing assets in order to increase productivity. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
the case of farai maguwu illustrates the brutal repression in zimbabwe, but also the need to broaden the scope of the kimberley process. diamonds must not only be certified as free from war crimes but also from human rights violations, including those committed by states and mining companies. diamond mining is relevant to the fight against poverty and the achievement of the millennium development goals. according to global witness, africa exported $393 billion worth of oil and minerals in 2008, nine times the total amount of aid the continent received. a fair exploitation of natural resources for the benefit of local populations can thus be crucial in strengthening the rule of law, promoting corporate social responsibility and thus guaranteeing human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
madam president, i would propose that, where we refer to the african charter of human and people’s rights, instead of saying ‘of which zimbabwe is a full member’ we say instead ‘which zimbabwe has ratified’.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. if the commission communication falls far short of what is necessary in this area, as the rapporteur admits, the truth is that the report itself also falls short of what is necessary. concrete measures are needed to put an end to the manipulation of food prices and the cartels of intermediary sectors in the supply chain, such as the large-scale distribution that the liberalisation of agricultural markets has brought about. the guarantee of fair minimum prices for farmers must be restored in order to guarantee a decent income that will enable them to maintain themselves in a sector of strategic importance, countering the abandonment of production and the increase in food dependence of several countries and regions, as is the case in portugal. consideration should be given to establishing maximum marketing margins, in particular for large areas, in relation to the prices paid to producers, in order to ensure a fair distribution of value added along the supply chain of the food chain. measures and policies, including fiscal measures, are needed to stimulate and support the functioning and modernisation of local and regional markets. food security, the preservation of ecosystems and the strengthening of the economic and social fabric in the primary sector also require that international trade be guided by a logic of complementarity and not competition between producers and products. we must question and break with the system which treats food as if it were just another commodity and which allows speculation on food, leading, as has been happening, to explosive situations from the point of view of food dependence and price volatility.
this report focuses on a very important issue in the field of agriculture, which lacks coordinated action at european level, given that, on average, the price of food products has increased by 3.3% a year since 1996, the cost of producing agricultural products by 3.6% and the prices paid to farmers by only 2.1%. we are therefore faced with a situation of serious trade imbalances in the food supply chain which must be corrected. farmers and the agri-food sector, in accordance with the objectives set by the cap, produce food that meets very high quality standards and maintains prices that are affordable to consumers. however, a very small number of powerful retailers impose their prices, almost without negotiation, on 13.4 million farmers and 310 000 agribusinesses across the european union. in this context, i support the call for the european commission to come forward with legislative proposals to solve the problem, including the amendment of the european competition rules, going beyond the mere recommendations and strategies developed by the high level group on the supply chain; to organise a wide information campaign at european level to inform farmers of their rights; to prohibit abusive practices which are particularly felt in the sector of perishable agricultural products such as fruit and vegetables; to promote support for farmers' organisations so that they can have a greater critical mass and increase their bargaining power. it would be interesting to equate farmers' organisations and cooperatives with small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can benefit from special exemptions. we recognize that the balance between full respect for the rules of free competition in a market economy which we advocate and the necessary and urgent intervention which is requested of the european commission has not always been easy, but we consider that, on the whole, it has been achieved, and we therefore approve and welcome this report.
this own-initiative report which we are debating today, under the responsibility of josé bové, whom i congratulate on the way he conducted it and on the good result it produced, in which i had the privilege of being the shadow and negotiating the 17 commitments obtained, is absolutely essential at a time when agricultural policies are increasingly market-oriented, farmers in europe are faced with very low income levels and millions of consumers, as a result of the crisis which affects everyone, are in urgent need of keeping food affordable. that is why, if farmers' incomes are going to increasingly depend on the value generated in markets and the price of food on their proper functioning, then improving the functioning of the food supply chain becomes absolutely necessary for a more equitable sharing of value generated, from agricultural producers to final consumers, ensuring fair incomes for some and adequate prices for others. this requires rebalancing the relationships established along the food supply chain, making them transparent and ensuring a framework of fair and competitive good practice. we therefore call on the commission to take account of the proposals which have been widely supported in the committee on agriculture.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join in the general tone of the speeches by congratulating the rapporteur and the colleagues who support the positions taken in the committee on agriculture, which approved this report by a large majority, and i would just like to appeal to the commissioner to draw inspiration from the good practices of some member states and i would like to mention the very concrete example of my country, portugal, which last week adopted important and courageous measures in this field, imposing a payment deadline of up to 30 days for products perishable to farmers and up to 60 days for food products for human consumption. i believe that this tax on large areas is a good example which could be followed at european level and i call on the commission to draw inspiration from this good practice in this member state.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the committee on agriculture on the strong vote on this report and also on the commitment and priority given by meps to this subject. the recent context of high price volatility has revealed a clear asymmetry between consumer prices and prices paid to small producers, thus highlighting clear imbalances in the food supply chain. the question of abuse of bargaining power is suffocating small producers in particular. i therefore call for a wide vote in the plenary so that this signal from the european parliament can encourage the european commission and the national authorities to take appropriate measures, as was recently the case with the portuguese government, which has courageously imposed on large supermarkets minimum payment periods of up to 30 days for perishable products and up to 60 days for foodstuffs for human consumption, with a view to a better balance in contractual relations within the food chain between processors, distributors and producers.
sahineh ashtiani, ebrahim hammadi, nasrin sotoodeh, zahra bahrami, mohammed mustafa, are some of the thousands of victims of brutal persecution by the regime in tehran. if they execute ebrahim or sakineh, who are threatened with the barbarity of stoning, the authorities in tehran will not only violate their country's obligations as a member of the international covenant on civil and political rights, but will also have to answer for heinous crimes that shame the great iranian civilization. i was in lisbon a few days ago for a demonstration, one of many around the world, against the conviction of sakineh, in the hope that voices like that of president lula of brazil will be heard by the authorities in tehran, with what they have left of rationality, compassion, humanity. from the point of view of the european union's relations with iran, the most important points in the resolution we will adopt tomorrow in this parliament, madam president, are those concerning the need for all those responsible for the repression and suppression of freedoms in iran to be banned from travelling to the european union and have their assets frozen, and also the demand that the commission and the council take measures to effectively help and protect those who are fighting for democracy, for human rights in iran. this has as much to do with what iran is today as it does with what we are in europe in defence of values, which are not just european, which are universal, the values of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
madam president, sakineh ashtiani is the face of executions in iran and the symbol of the injustice of judicial processes and the violation of fundamental rights. i want to add my voice to the international solidarity movements calling for the annulment of the sentence and sakineh's immediate release. demanding their release is also fighting for equal rights for women and for freedom of expression and active participation in a free society. i strongly support the causes against discrimination and in particular the cause of iranian women. i would like to highlight your role in the struggle for democracy in iran. the courage and determination of many iranian women is an inspiration and we must support them in their struggle for democracy and for a future in iran with peace, freedom and equal rights.
this summer, even seasonal work has failed to reduce unemployment, which, according to the latest eurostat data, averages 10% of the working population in the euro zone but affects more than 20% of young people in the european union. it is particularly serious that the european commission, the council and the governments do not give priority to this problem and insist on the restricted application of the stability pact, with austerity policies, and thus also condemn the future of a generation, of youth, and in some countries, such as france, even act with the collective expulsion, the return to their countries, of groups of roma citizens, fostering racism, xenophobia, at the level of the state itself. these are unacceptable attitudes which deserve our condemnation and which make it clear that freedom of movement is, after all, only for capital and goods. a break with these policies is urgent. it is essential that the european union upholds human rights and creates jobs with rights.
in the european union, unfortunately, several hundred thousand hectares of forest are burned every year. this year alone, in portugal, the area burned is over 100 000 hectares. even protected areas, such as the peneda gerês national park, have not escaped. in the peneda gerês national park alone, there were more than 8,000 hectares. these recurring disasters destroy natural and cultural heritage, lead to irreparable damage to biodiversity, destroy infrastructure, and exacerbate environmental problems. the european union does not invest in fire prevention. on the other hand, many of these fires are the result of desertification and the absence of policies for the rural world. i therefore believe that it is time, and urgent, for the european union to adopt a strategy for forest fire prevention and to step up its programmes to support rural areas.
a few days ago in arouca, portugal, all the workers of a shoe company were fired by a simple text message on their mobile phones, without further explanation. i bring this case here because it is, unfortunately, a flagrant example of the abuses of collective redundancies in europe. it is against all european standards and hurts every shred of common sense, respect and dignity. europe has added 8 million new unemployed to a total of 25 million since the crisis began. how many have been dismissed in such a shameful way? i'd say more and more, unfortunately. the european union claims to have a long tradition of safeguarding workers' rights. however, the current legislation has not been effective. what further action will the commission take? that is why this question is so relevant. there is no justification for dismissals like arouca's. it's an innovation to send a text message, but it's not a good innovation, it's a bad one, for sure.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the report i am presenting is the result of a compromise between groups with very different views on employment policies and protection against unemployment. i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the committees on employment and the budget for their willingness to reach an agreement to help the victims of collective redundancies in the union. this agreement is based on two findings: the first is that the social effects of the crisis will continue to be felt even if economic recovery is achieved, which is far from a given. as a result, mass redundancies are not a thing of the past. unfortunately, they will continue to shape the social life of our countries. that's why the first choice is simple: do we want to extend the globalisation adjustment fund, the only european instrument for those who are subject to collective redundancies, until 2020? the answer from this report is clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. the second finding is that this fund started with many shortcomings, but that the amendments to its regulations have significantly increased the number of applications to use it. it is too early to make an assessment, but we can point out and identify the main difficulty. the time between the time of the collective redundancy and the arrival of the money in the countries is between 12 and 17 months, in some cases much longer. we have a social emergency response fund that's as slow as a snail. what concerns me is the social consequence. this is why many workers end up not benefiting from the fund and, on the other hand, the delays discourage the willingness to prepare applications in the regions and countries which need them most. in fact, this is where the authorities do not put the applications in the field before they have them approved in brussels, because this forces them to go ahead with the national component of funding in a context of budgetary austerity. that is why the report proposes a chain of short-term measures to reduce delinquency by 50% and it is proposed that the fund should become permanent from 2013. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some of the member states which have benefited most from the fund are resisting its simplification, fearing that the acceleration will end up requiring more and more money. let's face it, that risk exists whether the fund is slow or fast. the risk of a long period of mediocre growth exists because it depends on the impact that austerity policies will have on the recovery of our economies. but what we are discussing here today is something else, namely europe's attitude to collective redundancy. if we sacrifice their victims on the altar of budgetary restraint, or if we are at least able to give these people at least as much attention as we have given to the financial system that our taxes have saved. the choice of this report is a matter of ethics, of the way we look at our fellow men and the way we look at europe. i want it unambiguously social.
madam president, i would like to emphasize three more points on this subject: the first concerns the preventive measures to be taken to stop multinationals moving, to combat unemployment and to increase employment with rights. the second concerns the application of this fund, which must not at any time be used as a pretext or in any way provide cover or facilitate redundancies due to restructuring of companies or relocation of multinationals; the third, to underline the need to increase the community contribution from 65% to at least 80%, so as to make it possible to use the fund in member states with the greatest financial difficulties, so that the unemployed who need it most can be quickly and effectively supported, which has not happened and which is not happening at present.
in writing. i support this report on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as i fully support the rapporteur's idea of a more rapid mobilisation of this fund. the egf was established to alleviate the negative consequences of globalisation for workers made redundant by helping them to find employment again by supporting personalised reintegration programmes. this fund has a maximum budget of €500 million per year, never fully exploited by the member states. at present there is still a period of 12 to 17 months between the time when the collective redundancies occur and the time when egf funding is made available to the member state. the rapporteur's proposals for simplification and flexibility could reduce the time required to mobilise the egf by half. in order to respond to the increase in unemployment resulting from the economic and financial crisis, it is essential that the egf becomes a genuine flexible and targeted support instrument on a permanent basis. only in this way can the egf be used to promote new skills for new sustainable and quality jobs, contributing to the improvement of the union's competitiveness in the context of globalisation.
i think it is important that there are so many people who are interested in speaking out on these issues and that the commission should see this as the need to address these problems, because gender inequality is particularly acute in older women, whether because of the low incomes of most women or because of the difficulties in accessing quality public services, and in particular health. discrimination in pay, in employment, in maternity, is directly reflected in the general level of pensions and pensions for older women, and thus these pensions and pensions are low and contribute to the very high risk of poverty for older women. all women have the right to age in dignity and therefore, in the european year against poverty, special attention must be paid to elderly women so that their dignity as women and citizens is respected.
president barroso, there is no point in making state of the union speeches if, at a time when one of the union's fundamental principles is under attack, the president's reaction is lukewarm, timid and weak. mr president, your first reference to what is happening in france with the gypsies was more or less appropriate, your second reference was frankly an embarrassment to the commission. because it started with the gypsies but is now going to the poor, president sarkozy said yesterday that europeans without the means of subsistence to stay in france could not reside in france for more than three months, which means that it will leave us not only on the verge of undoing a fundamental principle of the union, which is freedom of movement, but it will also make us more vulnerable to the crisis, because we know very well that the mobility of the workforce is one of the countries' responses to the crisis. in the united states, if the automobile industry in detroit fails, people go to chicago, in europe they can't do that. if the commission is speaking out now, it is doing a great service to europe by confronting the undoing of the union's fundamental principles when they are happening. if the commission is silent, it is doing europe a disservice at the moment.
in writing. other the announcements, such as the one made by the president of the european commission here today, that the worst of the crisis is over, follow one another with the same pace of relentless denials that reality confronts them with. the truth is that the eu remains mired in a deep crisis with no end in sight, as evidenced by the rising levels of unemployment and poverty in several countries. the president of the commission is here today to talk to us about the future of the eu. but he did so by announcing the resumption of the instruments and policies of the past - the same ones that have brought us to this grim present: the stability and growth pact; structural reforms, read the attack on social and labour rights; the deepening of the internal market, i.e. the continuation of liberalisation and privatisation; the liberalisation and deregulation of international trade; the escalation of the eu's external interventionism (including military). this is the way to deepen the economic and social disaster, at eu and global level. this is a path that the workers and the people reject, as is becoming very clear in the protests that have mobilized millions of people in various countries against the measures that barroso has come here to propose.
europeans are living through a dramatic time with very high unemployment, very weak economic growth and weak public finances. on the other hand, they do not feel a real affinity for the european project or the work of the european institutions. this situation will only be reversed if our fellow citizens look back at the priorities of the european union, as defined by these same institutions, and believe in their feasibility. this first state of the union address by the president of the european commission demonstrates his commitment to reiterating these concerns in the short and mediumterm policy guidelines. it is my belief that with the commitment of all of us, we can use these difficult times to bring new hope to people. the europe 2020 strategy is a unique opportunity to do so, but this strategy only makes sense if, in addition to its ambitious targets, it has the financial means to achieve them. strong economic growth will be crucial to delivering on the stability and growth pacts and can be stimulated by the reforms and investment underpinning the new strategy, which promote territorial cohesion by reducing imbalances between member states and between their regions, especially in the most vulnerable such as the outermost regions.
in writing. − free movement is a fundamental right and a means of increasing the possibilities for improving working and living conditions. this right should be recognised for permanent, seasonal, frontier workers or those who carry on their activity in the course of the provision of services in any member state. my vote in favour of this resolution is in recognition of the contribution it makes to the support provided by employment services to nationals of other member states, to equal treatment, and to the right to admission to general education, apprenticeship and training of children of a national of a member state who is or has been employed in another member state.
in writing. the new regulation is intended to replace the 1968 regulation on the free movement of workers and the various acts incorporated into it. we are therefore faced with the codification process, in which, according to the opinion of the consultative group of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission, no substantive amendments have been added in this case. i certainly support this initiative, which is designed to simplify and clarify union legislation, which has been subject to frequent amendments and is scattered over several acts. only in this way can we ensure greater transparency in union legislation, making it more accessible and easier for the ordinary citizen to understand, which will open up new opportunities and the possibility of benefiting from the specific rights conferred on him, thus enshrining the europe of the citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it guarantees that workers from one member state in the territory of other member states are treated in the same way as national workers in all employment and working conditions, including pay, dismissal and reintegration into employment.
in writing. - this resolution is merely a codification of existing texts on the free movement of workers within the union, without any substantive changes, and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption. i would like to point out, however, that this free movement implies greater political integration. only a new concept of sociality in the european union, capable of guaranteeing minimum social rights to every european citizen, will allow free movement of workers without social problems and in particular social dumping. i believe that this free movement requires the implementation of minimum standards in the areas of health, education and social pensions, which should be guaranteed at the level of the european union. the establishment of these minimum standards in terms of social rights adds to the homogeneity of employment conditions by acting as a regulatory effect on the movement of labour between firms.
in writing. − the free movement of workers within the union is one of the main objectives of all member states and a driving force behind the development of the economies of all the countries of the union. there can therefore be no discrimination of any kind whatsoever. it is therefore very important that all the provisions which make this possible are fully laid down and codified. the adoption of this regulation will provide guidance for all member states in coordinating their employment policies. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour because this is a matter of the utmost importance, especially at a time when the debate on the mobility of roma citizens in the community is ongoing.
in writing. − simplifying and clarifying european legislation is of the utmost importance in order to make the rules more understandable and more accessible to citizens. the easy understanding of these rules makes it possible to know better the rights they enjoy and thus generates new opportunities. the codification of scattered provisions, which are subject to frequent amendments, is necessary in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of european legislation and to bring it closer to the citizen. it is more relevant in the context of the free movement of workers, a subject which has become a privileged stage in the construction of european integration and which has opened up new opportunities for citizens of the member states by the right to be able to work freely in another member state, on equal terms, with the prohibition of any discrimination.
in writing. − the existence of mechanisms and a legislative framework to ensure that any currency in circulation is authenticated by the competent authorities is essential to protect financial institutions and markets from fraud. the guarantee of the validity of the currency and its circulation requires appropriate treatment, which will have to be ensured at national level. it is therefore appropriate to introduce binding rules harmonising the application of euro authentication procedures and the control of these procedures. the handling of these issues should be carried out by appropriately qualified and specialised professionals in order to ensure the effectiveness of the procedures. i also believe that this harmonization is essential to increase consumer and market confidence in the euro area.
in writing. − counterfeiting of euro coins is a significant threat, especially for coins with higher denominations. the lack of a binding common framework for coin authentication may make it difficult to protect coins. the regulation now adopted is a legally binding instrument which makes it possible to establish a common method of authenticating euro coins. one of the main objectives of the regulation is to ensure that the institutions ensure that euro coins reintroduced into circulation are subject to authentication procedures. authentication shall be carried out by means of coin-processing machines referred to in article 5 (3) or by duly trained staff in accordance with the methods laid down by the member states. moreover, because authenticating euro coins inevitably implies costs for the institutions involved in this process (credit institutions and a number of other institutions such as cash carriers), i propose including the right of institutions to withhold a processing fee.
in writing. - the fight against counterfeiting of euro banknotes and coins and the procedures for authenticating euro coins are the reason for adopting this regulation, so that there will be a binding common framework for the authentication of coins. hence my vote.
in writing. - in view of the impact of the current economic and financial crisis on moldova and the path of convergence with the union that the country is seeking to follow, i believe that the european option of granting macrofinancial assistance to moldova is appropriate. solidarity with those who are in the european neighbourhood policy should not be such as to override the need for the european union to monitor properly the use made of the aid provided and to hold local authorities responsible for its good management. without such close monitoring, aid will be of no use and may even have a detrimental effect in countries like moldova, which are seeking to stabilise their institutions and strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. - the macro-financial assistance to moldova now proposed does not constitute genuine and disinterested aid. on the contrary, this assistance is conditional on the imf's imposition and protection of the key principles and objectives of economic reform set out in the memorandum of economic and financial policy, namely: redundancies and freezing of public administration salaries; introduction of measures to further weaken labour relations by cutting workers' rights; increase in the retirement age; increases in energy prices; privatisations; freezing of public employees' salaries; reduction of aid to farmers; increase in direct and indirect taxes; closure of schools and subordination of universities to private financing; deregulation and further liberalisation of internal and external investments. these are more than enough reasons for us not to support this granting of macrofinancial assistance to moldova. this package of measures will further impoverish a country and its population which are already among the poorest in the region. it is worth saying that with these "friends" like the eu and the imf promoting this brutal attack on their rights, the moldovan people do not need enemies.
in writing. the process of stabilising and relaunching the moldovan economy is supported by financial assistance from the international monetary fund (imf). in view of the worsening economic situation and prospects, moldova has requested union macro-financial assistance. the macrofinancial assistance programme is very important in helping the financial balance of european nations that have been through the recent world crisis and that have been hurt by the consequences of that crisis in their main trading partners. the financial imbalances are budgetary and balance of payments imbalances. this aid is important for moldova to face the crisis in a more consistent manner. the eu must therefore be a space of solidarity. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the economic operators in the azores and thus to ensure more stable employment in order to overcome the economic disadvantages which are felt as a result of their geographical situation. this temporary suspension of duties will allow local economic operators in the azores and madeira to import a certain number of raw materials, parts, components and finished products duty-free and will cover sectors such as fisheries, agriculture, industry and services, which will provide, in an unfavourable climate, an improvement in competitiveness and a more favourable long-term investment environment for investors.
in writing. - i am enthusiastic and favourable to the contents of this report. in the context of economic crisis, the need to take measures to respond to the specific problems of the outermost regions of the union is of particular relevance. the geographical remoteness of the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores imposes marked commercial disadvantages on the economic operators operating there. disadvantages, those which have a negative impact on demographic trends, employment and economic and social development the regional economies of madeira and the azores are heavily dependent on tourism, a highly volatile economic resource, which is conditioned by many factors outside the control and dynamism of the respective local authorities and the portuguese government. the economic development of madeira and the azores is therefore affected by these limitations. in these circumstances, it is clear that it is important to support the economic sectors less dependent on the tourist industry in order to compensate for their fluctuations and thereby stabilise regional employment. in particular, support for smes and local farmers to invest and create stable jobs in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products into the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores' because, in the context of the international crisis, it is urgent to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and to ensure the stability of employment in these outermost regions.
in writing. as i said in january on the same subject, i consider it essential to introduce temporary suspensions of autonomous customs duties in order to strengthen the competitiveness of economic operators in the portuguese autonomous regions of madeira and the azores and thus ensure more stable jobs in those islands. the approval of this derogation is essential for the development of these portuguese autonomous regions, both of which are highly dependent on the tourism industry and therefore highly subject to the volatility of this sector of activity and as such, limited in their full economic development by the characteristics of their local economy and their geographical location. in this sense, any incentive for local industries is certainly a necessary support for the improvement of the living conditions of the local population and a way of enabling the creation of employment on the islands, which is essential to fixing the populations and creating conditions for development.
in writing. − following the request of the regional authorities of madeira and the azores in august and december 2007 on the introduction of the temporary suspension of autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products from 1 january 2010 to 31 december 2019, parliament approves the council regulation introducing the need to notify and inform the european parliament in the event of the adoption of a delegated act or if the council intends to raise objections. we agree with this suspension requested by the two regions, as it represents an important measure for the development of the region, as well as for regional small and mediumsized enterprises, farmers and local producers, recognising the constraints arising from ultraperiphery. for these reasons we voted in favour.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report, which is geared to the situation of the outermost regions, whose economies are fragile by nature and have very specific characteristics requiring concrete responses suitably adapted to their particularities. the measures now approved are designed to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and should help to help local smes and farmers to invest and create jobs, thus promoting more stable employment in the autonomous regions of the azores and madeira. in the context of the general economic crisis, this is a specific measure to stimulate economic activity and employment in the medium term, important contributions to cohesion and convergence in the european area. the customs suspension will last for 10 years and cover a wide range of products such as finished products for industrial use, raw materials, parts and components used for agricultural purposes, industrial processing and maintenance. although it is not possible to carry out a rigorous assessment of the impact of these measures, since they are an integral part of a series of other measures adapted to the specific problems of these autonomous regions, the european commission expects these approved measures to have an impact on the union's own resources/revenue of the order of 0,12/year for the period 2010-2019.
in writing. - i voted in favour because vital interests for two portuguese regions are at stake.
in writing. the temporary suspension of autonomous duties on certain industrial products imported from madeira and the azores is a measure aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of local economies and, consequently, securing employment in these two outermost regions of the european union. the suspension is conditional on the end-use of the products and benefits only the economic operators in these regions, and aims to attract investment by providing a long-term perspective for achieving a stable economic and social environment in the region. the aim of the proposal is to make the suspension not only applicable to industries located in free zones but also to all types of economic operators located in the regions. the product scope was also extended to finished products for industrial use, raw materials and other materials, as well as parts and components used for agricultural, processing and industrial maintenance purposes. the economies of the outermost regions are fragile economies with very specific characteristics which require particular responses adapted to the specificities of these regions. although i regret that the document does not cover a wider range of products, it does provide a positive stimulus to the economy of the outermost regions and therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - as this proposal does not entail any additional expenditure, but only a clarification of the appropriations for administrative and operational expenditure, making section iii of the budget more specific and rigorous, i support the rapporteur in approving the council's position.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has brought new responsibilities to the european parliament. this leads to an increased administrative burden and the need for members to have qualified staff to carry out advisory functions. this new reality brings two problems: the increased costs of requiring more assistants and the physical space needed for them to perform their duties in good working conditions. this leads to increased costs, which in this time of crisis is difficult to explain, but if the european parliament is to do an excellent job it must have the necessary human and financial resources.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, the member of the european parliament is facing criminal charges relating to the falsification of accounting transactions relating to the financing of a political party during a period prior to his election to the european parliament, and the charges are therefore not related to his activities as a member of the european parliament. we shall therefore have to lift your immunity. hence my vote.
in writing. − this agreement aims to establish more effective cooperation in the field of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the eu member states and japan. i consider the conclusion of this agreement to be important, not only because it allows the creation of a clear and coherent regulatory framework governing such cooperation, but also because there were no bilateral agreements between the member states and japan in this field. the current challenges of globalisation are increasingly leading to the need for transnational responses, with the fight against crime as a clear example, where cooperation and assistance between the various states of the international community play a key role. under this agreement, a formal request may be made, or only spontaneous exchanges of information may take place, such as witness statements, records, bank statements, location or identification of persons. the requested state always has the possibility of rejecting such a request on the classical grounds of refusal, but this must be preceded by a consultation phase between the states concerned. i therefore support this agreement which allows for more effective legal aid while safeguarding an adequate level of guarantees.
in writing. - organized crime has long since moved beyond the borders of individual states and is now active in many parts of the world. this is a situation which is characteristic of our times and which requires concerted responses on the part of the international organizations, the states and the peoples who are victims of criminal acts. the agreement between the union and japan on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is another step in this direction. the rule of law states have an obligation to ensure that the borders which separate them at the international legal level are not used by criminals as a way of escaping justice, thus frustrating their conviction and the fair compensation of the victims. however effective the police and judicial authorities of individual countries may be, the exchange of information and the adoption of best practices will benefit everyone if we can all benefit from mutual legal assistance. i pray that it is.
in writing. − in february 2009, the council authorised the opening of negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and japan on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. by decision of 30 november 2009, the council authorised the signing of that agreement on the basis of articles 24 and 38 of the treaty on european union. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament was asked to approve the council decision in accordance with article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the agreements are modelled on other judicial cooperation agreements concluded in the past and focus in particular on cooperation in the conduct of investigations or the taking of evidence, as well as on other activities such as the service of communications in the requested state. among the most important provisions, i would stress the collection of evidence and statements, the possibility of using videoconferencing, the obtaining of records, documents or extracts from bank accounts or, in particular, the location or identification of persons, as well as the provision of information held by the legislative, administrative or judicial authorities of the requested state or by their local authorities.
in writing. - the globalisation of our times is not limited to the economic sphere, but is now extending to other areas, including crime. that is why judicial cooperation in criminal matters between states is always on the agenda. in the case of japan, and despite the lack of a regulatory framework, the judicial authorities of the two countries have been cooperating with each other. it is therefore of the utmost importance that negotiations begin on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and japan on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. hence my vote.
in writing. - this is another key step in establishing broad judicial cooperation with third countries.
in writing. according to a 2008 fidh report, japan continues to sentence criminals to death and to lock them up for decades in secret and isolated prisons. the pace of executions has accelerated in recent years, most notably in 2008. no revision of death sentences has been accepted since 1986. the agreement the eu is about to conclude does not include extradition procedures. however, it allows for the assumption of various pieces of evidence useful in carrying out possible convictions - including the temporary transfer of a detained person to be heard. article 11 allows eu member states to refuse requests for mutual assistance under certain conditions but does not prevent them from being granted when the death penalty could be the outcome of the trial. i am in favour of judicial cooperation in criminal matters where it is done in compliance with the rights of the defence, procedural guarantees and human rights. in the case of japan, this raises some puzzles, to say the least. that is why i cannot give the green light to this new treaty.
in writing. - the interconnection of the business register is essential as the current fragmentation not only harms the business world but also leads to a lack of consumer confidence. in particular, the problems this fragmentation creates for smes, which are part of the backbone of the european economy, job creation, economic growth and social cohesion in the eu and in cross-border relations, which pose clear obstacles to the eu's single market. i fully support the creation of a single window, which should be available in all eu languages and properly disseminated, in order to ensure access to quality, reliable and up-to-date information from the eu business register. in the current context, where profound measures are being taken to overcome the crisis, this instrument could be a valuable addition to strengthening the confidence of 500 million eu citizens in the single market and to improving cross-border trade relations. i therefore welcome the report voted on in this house today.
in writing. - when we talk about the internal market we have to realise that one of its consequences is an increase in cross-border trade. this is desirable and should be encouraged, but it also entails the need to make official and reliable information available to the public about companies operating in the eu. the lack of uniformity of the data contained in the different trade registers leads to legal uncertainty, which is not in the interest of union companies or consumers. it is therefore necessary to create a centralised european portal where the registration data of all member states are to be found in a uniform manner. this increases transparency, efficiency and legal certainty, and strengthens the confidence of the 500 million european consumers, which is essential in the context of the exit from the crisis. finally, and following closely the opinion of the econ committee, i stress the need for a new system (or portal) which should not represent an additional administrative burden for european companies. this system should make life easier for all market players and not be a (more) red tape to overcome.
in writing. − the increasing cross-border economic activity, in the interests of legal certainty and transparency, requires better interconnection of business registers. this reduces costs and increases efficiency. the interconnection of business registers is an appropriate measure to strengthen the further integration of the economic area within the eu and to improve legal certainty for businesses and consumers. the registers operate at national or regional level and store only information relating to companies registered in the territory (country or region) for which they are competent. there are already different mechanisms in place to interconnect business registers: the european business register initiative (ebr) and the business register interoperability throughout europe (brite) project. the ebr and brite are optional and brite is only a research project. a single point of access to business information for all european companies would save time and money. therefore, the participation of all member states should be considered mandatory.
in writing. - economic globalisation undoubtedly leads to the need for an interconnection of business registers. at present, all information on companies is recorded only at regional and national level, and it is necessary to extend it to all member states, given the growing demand for access to information on companies in a transnational context. the creation of interconnection of business registers is very important to stop the economic losses that affect all stakeholders, be they the companies themselves, their employees, consumers and the general public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the view that the new sustainable economy should be based on the provision of skilled employment that promotes innovation in sectors strategic for europe's future, notably energy and research. the added value of these areas of knowledge, their ability to be relocated, their ability to be found in both peripheral and central regions of the european continent, offer enormous potential in terms of new technologies and the possibility of adapting to the new environmental and human situation. it will be essential to focus on sectors that promote the prevention and mitigation of the effects of climate change, where maritime regions will have a huge role to play, as well as on alternative ways of producing energy, taking advantage of the natural resources of each of europe's regions. knowledge linked to innovation in the environment is the future of the new economy, and there needs to be a strong focus on the application of knowledge to new economic uses. knowledge can produce added value, but it can only promote employment through synergies between research centres, production centres and distribution centres, providing employment in a wide range of areas from research to services and trade.
in writing. - my vote in favour of this report is based on the recognition of the importance of green jobs in a society that aims to be sustainable. green work must also be one that contributes by saving energy and natural resources, using renewable energy, preserving ecosystems and reducing the impacts of waste generation and pollution. in fact, the positive side-effect of promoting work in these sectors is considerable and should be enhanced. at the same time, adequate working conditions and basic and continuing training for workers must be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'developing the employment potential of a new sustainable economy' because it argues that the creation of green jobs should not be a mere numerical assessment. it is equally important to know how to ensure good working conditions and how to ensure a transition to a sustainable economy in a socially fair way.
in writing. − the number of parliamentary committees involved in the preparation of the report six demonstrates both the importance of the employment issue today and the way in which the concept of sustainability is now an inescapable part of the lexicon and political discourse. the sustainability of the economy and its potential for job creation are problems shared by workers, businessmen and politicians, technicians and laymen, environmentalists and industrialists, among others. one of the main problems is precisely the cost of sustainability and how it is shared. we wonder to what extent this requirement, which is not always sufficiently visible or feasible, will not be adversely affecting the capacity for initiative and organisation in the markets, or will it not be introducing an additional degree of difficulty in an economy already battered by crisis and uncertainty. there is therefore a growing need today for sustainability not just to be a broad concept, and therefore difficult to achieve, but rather to be a practical and achievable presupposition for interpreting human action and interaction in the world, including at the economic level, for the benefit of all and not just a few radicals.
in writing. − development is sustainable when meeting the needs of the present generation does not threaten the needs of future generations. we must take an integrated approach to economic, social and ecological interests, intensify social dialogue, strengthen corporate responsibility and adopt the principles of prevention and the polluter pays. the thinking must be long-term, with the aim of competitiveness and social, economic, territorial and environmental cohesion, and that is why i am in favour of investments in human, social and environmental capital, technological innovation and new ecological services. this commitment is our contribution to the fight against climate change. the eu has committed itself to reducing ghg emissions by at least 20%, meeting 20% of its energy needs with renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. according to an ipcc study, limiting global warming to 2°c will only be possible if industrialized countries reduce their ghg emissions by 80 to 90% by 2050 compared to 1990. in this way, it advocates the creation of green jobs that contribute to sustainable growth based on social justice and eco-efficiency and the promotion of employment in the rural world in order to avoid desertification.
in writing. - this own-initiative report has positive aspects in several areas and has taken up part of the opinion i was responsible for in the committee on industry, energy and research, although it does not stress, as it should, the need for greater attention to the specificities of each member state. i would like to highlight a few positive aspects: - considers that a new sustainable economy of the european union must ensure balanced economic and social development, stressing the importance of the public sector; - calls for a sustainable and ambitious industrial policy that puts the emphasis on resource efficiency and stresses that a green economy must offer prospects for decent and well-paid work, that it must focus on energy efficiency, which in turn also contributes to industrial diversification. - stresses that the transition to a new sustainable economy is a very complex process, and therefore insists on the need to pay particular attention to areas affected by deindustrialisation, either by creating appropriate financial support or by integrated sustainable development interventions, accompanied by innovative measures capable of creating quality jobs with rights and living wages, aimed at reducing regional inequalities and asymmetries, in dialogue with the social partners, and stresses the importance of supporting smes;
in writing. − the concept of employment in a new sustainable economy is creating a new paradigm in relation to the economic assumptions that have hitherto been regarded as fundamental to economic development and job creation. a sustainable economy implies major changes in employment potential, and companies in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors will play a key role in creating new jobs worldwide. the german example illustrates the success of firms in this sector in creating new jobs. however, it is essential that other eu countries follow germany's example if a multiplier effect of employment in a sustainable economy is to be seen across the european area.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because the full completion of the internal market and its efficient functioning are as important for the eu as they are for its trading partners, in particular the efta member states. switzerland, the eu's fourth largest trading partner by volume, has its model of economic integration without accession based on bilateral sectoral agreements. this poses additional challenges as bilateral agreements, unlike the eea agreement, do not provide for any automatic mechanisms to adapt their content to the evolution of the relevant eu acquis. despite the positive developments regarding the agreement on the free movement of persons (fmpa) between the eu member states and switzerland, there are still issues in the implementation of the fmpa that need to be addressed. i therefore believe that all possibilities for improving the implementation of the fmpa should be considered, in particular the reinforcement of the standardisation of the implementation of the fmpa and greater convergence between community and swiss legislation on the internal market.
in writing. - switzerland has a particular history and idiosyncrasy which is reflected not only in the way it governs itself internally but also in the way it has chosen to relate to other states and in the caution and reservations it places on those same relations. the swiss reluctance to join large international organizations or to sign treaties which are binding on them and affect their internal legal order is not new. nor is it particularly new that it gives preferential treatment to its own nationals and to companies based in the community to the detriment of external competition, which sometimes suffers unreasonably from legal or administrative obstacles to its action. nevertheless, switzerland has been an important partner of the european union and has concluded over a hundred bilateral agreements with the eu governing the relationship between the two. the swiss decision to remain outside the european economic area did not help to speed up and facilitate the union's economic relations with that country, but it did not prevent them from developing into an overall positive outcome. i wish them to grow stronger and expand.
in writing. − the four member states (iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland) of the european free trade association (efta) are major trading partners of the european union (eu), with switzerland and norway ranking fourth and fifth respectively among the eu's most important trading partners in terms of volume, and belong with the eu to a common cultural space in terms of sharing core values and a cultural and historical heritage. given that the new rules of the lisbon treaty may lead to a more delayed application of internal market legislation in the eea (european economic area) /efta states, i agree with the need for the commission to formalise the procedure for the notification of new community regulations and legislation falling within the scope of the eea agreement in order to narrow the gap between the adoption of new legislation and its eventual acceptance by the eea/efta states. i also agree that the parliaments of the eea/efta states should be closely involved in the eu legislative process on proposals which are relevant for eea purposes. i therefore advocate that the commission should forward to the national parliaments of the eea/efta states the legislative proposals which are sent for consultation to the national parliaments of the eu member states.
in writing. − switzerland, together with iceland, norway and liechtenstein, is part of the european free trade association (efta) and is an important trading partner of the eu. however, iceland, norway and liechtenstein have further strengthened their trade relations with the eu by adopting the agreement on the european economic area (eea). as switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner in terms of volume, the adoption of the eea agreement is of paramount importance. hence my vote.
in writing. - it is absolutely essential to create a genuine european economic area as envisaged by the porto treaty.
in writing. - i hope that the eu-korea free trade agreement will be mutually beneficial and that the restrictions on free trade will be minimal for both sides. the safeguard measures are intended to address serious injury to the union industries. the bilateral safeguard clause should be tightened up in the agreement signed with south korea in october so that the modalities of its application are properly laid down and its operation is subject to a transparent process involving the counterparty. in the interests of free trade, these clauses must be limited to what is necessary to avoid greater harm and be appropriate and proportionate to the situations they are intended to prevent. i hope that european industry will be increasingly robust and creative so that the actual recourse will not happen.
in writing. - this proposal for a european parliament and council regulation constitutes the legal instrument for the application of the safeguard clause of the eu-korea fta. a free trade agreement between the eu and the republic of korea was concluded on 15 october 2009. the agreement incorporates a bilateral safeguard clause which provides for the possibility to reinstate the duty applied to parties benefiting from the most-favoured-nation (mfn) treatment whenever, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase under conditions which cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the union industry manufacturing like or directly competing products. in order for these measures to become operational, the safeguard clause should be incorporated into the legislation of the european union, as it is necessary to specify not only the procedural aspects of the application of safeguard measures, but also the rights of the parties concerned.
in writing. − the adoption of this safeguard clause, which is a recognition of the harmful consequences of the liberalization and deregulation of world trade, does not remove the dangers and concerns that the eu-south korea free trade agreement entails for the future of various sectors of economic activity, particularly in some member states, such as portugal, and in regions more dependent on these sectors. we recall the textile and clothing sector, which is particularly targeted by this agreement. we are reminded of the study by the directorate-general for employment and eurofund, which puts forward scenarios of a reduction in community employment in this sector of between 20 and 25% by 2020, but even goes so far as to put forward a scenario of a loss of 50% of the jobs currently existing in the european union. we also recall sectors such as the electronics industry and the automotive component industry. the neoliberal fundamentalism of the eu, in the name of the profits of its multinationals, continues to sacrifice jobs and productive capacity on the altar of free trade, continues to aggravate deficits, to promote external dependence and chronic and growing imbalances in trade balances. it continues to justify attacks on workers' rights, social dumping, the ruin of millions of small producers and many small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. − the eu-south korea free trade agreement is of great importance for the economic development of the eu member states. however, in order to avoid distortions and to ensure a balance between imports and exports from both sides, bilateral safeguard clauses are necessary. these clauses allow to safeguard possible serious injury to the eu industry in case of an excessive increase in imports of certain products. it is therefore necessary to incorporate that safeguard clause into eu legislation in order to make those measures operational.
in writing. the european union is the world's most demanding production area and the world's most permeable market. this creates very serious problems, especially for our producers who, because of the heavy and extensive set of standards they have to meet, sometimes have higher production costs than their competitors in other parts of the world. if they gain free access to our markets, this creates an unfair competition situation which is unbearable for producers, but also for processors, industry and traders and which is very damaging in the medium term for european society. in this context, i warmly welcome this report on trade between the european union and korea which, by providing for a bilateral safeguard clause to avoid significant damage to european industry in the event of a high volume of imports, recognises this chronic problem and begins to take appropriate measures to minimise it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in which i was responsible for the european socialist group, because i considered it necessary to rebalance the relationships established along the food supply chain, to make them transparent, to ensure that there is a framework of fair and competitive good practice and a system of supervision to ensure their proper functioning. i now hope that the commission will take account of the guidelines adopted by parliament here today and translate them into its legislative proposal which it will present to us by the end of the year.
in writing. − once the problems in food supply chains have been identified at european and global level, effective solutions are urgently needed. this report sets out some ways forward, among which i would highlight the need to promote the increase in the surplus value of european agri-food production, the importance of considering measures against abusive practices, such as a system of sanctions and the drawing up of public lists of companies that are in breach of the rules, and the creation of a european observatory on agricultural prices and margins. in addition, i believe it is essential to promote the rationalisation of the food supply chain in order to reduce the environmental impact of food transport, the marketing of local food products and the sustainable development of the rural economy.
in writing. − the food crisis and the resulting volatility in food and commodity prices have exposed existing concerns about the functioning of food supply chains at european and global level. they also pointed to the gap between the annual increase in food prices, 3.3%, and the price farmers receive, 2.1%, compared to the increase in expenditure, 3.6%, reflecting the lack of price transparency along the supply chain. i am in favour of the content of this report because i believe that balanced trade relations would not only improve the functioning of the food supply but would also benefit farmers themselves. i therefore reaffirm that the fundamental objective of the cap must be to maintain the competitiveness of european agriculture and to support agricultural activity in the eu in order to ensure local food production and balanced territorial development. but without neglecting the ability to secure fair incomes in the agricultural sector. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'fair income for farmers: improving the functioning of the food supply chain in europe' as measures are needed to ensure fairer incomes for farmers, more transparent prices for consumers and a better functioning of the food supply chain in europe, including through legislative proposals to correct an unfair distribution of income along the food chain, respond to price volatility and reduce the vulnerability of farmers.
in writing. - we all agree that farmers, because of the specific nature of their activity, are particularly exposed to price volatility. some good measures for their protection are advanced in the report, but others cannot but be questioned. the compulsory reporting of market shares is therefore in danger of becoming a mere bureaucratic measure. i also express doubts about the fact that the existence of abuses of dominant positions and unfair practices in the food supply chain is highlighted, because if there are indeed abuses and unfair practices, the current competition laws must be applied and the offenders punished! that is why i do not see much need for a new relationship between competition rules and the cap. as far as private labels are concerned, we know that they give consumers greater freedom of choice and studies show that consumers end up preferring these products. that's how the market works. there are many subjects in this report which will allow for further reflection in the future.
in writing. - farmers must have a fair income. it is not acceptable that since 1996 farm costs have increased by 3.6% while prices of products produced by farmers have increased by only 2.1%. however, food prices have risen by 3.3% a year, which means that farmers have been the ones being penalized. it should be noted that the average income of farmers decreased by more than 12% in the eu-27 in 2009. all the objectives of the treaty of rome relating to agriculture (increased productivity, adequate food supplies, reasonable consumer prices, stabilization of markets) have been achieved, with the exception of the objective of ensuring fair incomes in agriculture. the commission should improve the european food price monitoring tool to meet the need for greater transparency in food price formation among consumers and farmers. i also call on the commission to implement swiftly the pilot project on the creation of a european observatory of agricultural prices and margins (complete with data on prices, margins and volumes), for which the european parliament and the council have adopted an allocation of eur 1.5 million in the 2010 budget.
in writing. - the report falls far short of the ambition that seemed to be associated with its title. the text ends up offering little or nothing concrete on how to achieve fair incomes for farmers, leaving vague and even ambiguous wording, referring to the european commission to submit proposals that would be the obligation of the ep to submit. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. a price policy is needed which takes account of the sensitive nature of this activity and which, among other measures, fixes fair minimum amounts to be paid to farmers. quantitative control of imports is required, by implementing community preference, giving priority to the production of each country and its food sovereignty. large-scale farms should be obliged to market a significant share of each country's national production, taking into account in particular the levels of agri-food dependence and the state of its trade and agri-food balance.
in writing. - the eu can only have a strong and self-sufficient agricultural sector if farmers have fair incomes and what they produce is sold at a fair price. however, the great pressure exerted by the main food supply chains has led to a decrease in prices paid to farmers and an increase in the cost of products to consumers. the increase in consumer prices must be reflected in the price paid to the farmer, because only then can balanced trade relations be achieved. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it contains numerous proposals to balance the balance of power between the different players in the food production and supply chain. the weak link in this chain is now small and mediumsized farmers, and without fair compensation it will be impossible to successfully combat the human desertification of rural areas and at the same time to reconvert small farming and the associated manufacturing industry in environmental terms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because i fully support the idea that the fund should be mobilised more quickly, especially at a time when the increase in unemployment resulting from the economic and financial crisis must be addressed by making the egf a flexible and permanent support instrument.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the requests made to the european commission to speed up the egf, which include, amongst others, an evaluation of the contributions granted taking into account the impact of the egf on its network of beneficiaries and the small and medium-sized enterprises potentially affected by redundancy schemes and whose workers could benefit from the fund. i also agree with the proposals to the commission which aim to reduce by half the time required to mobilise the egf, in particular that the commission should have the necessary human and technical resources, while respecting the principle of budgetary neutrality, to process applications submitted by the member states in an efficient and rapid manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the increase in the number of applications for assistance from the fund and the difficulties in applying the procedure for mobilisation and implementation require rapid amendments to its procedural and budgetary provisions. given the disparity between cases, the european commission should make a proposal for greater flexibility in the intervention criteria applicable to each member state in order to avoid inequalities in access to this instrument.
in writing. - the vicissitudes of the european globalisation adjustment fund make particularly clear both the disparity and the relatively small number of egf applications and the shortcomings of this instrument to support the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market. it is necessary to examine in detail the reasons for the insufficient use of the fund and to identify ways of speeding up its use by the member states, in particular those most affected by unemployment.
in writing. − the eu, in order to mitigate the negative consequences of globalisation for workers who are victims of collective redundancies, has created the european globalisation adjustment fund to financially support personalised vocational reintegration programmes. the fund has an annual allocation of €500 million. in view of the economic and social crisis, the low rate of implementation of this fund is surprising. in fact, from 2007 to the first half of 2009, only €80 million of the €1.5 billion available was used for 18 applications, in favour of 24 431 workers and 8 member states. since the changes to this fund in may 2009, the number of applications submitted has increased from 18 to 46, the total contribution requested has increased from €80 million to €197 million and the number of countries submitting applications has increased from 8 to 10. however, 9 member states have not yet made use of the egf. in addition, the eu regions with the highest gdps have benefited most from this fund. the reasons for this must be assessed and action taken to ensure that the fund is implemented more effectively and more quickly and that it is transformed into an independent fund with its own appropriations for commitments and payments.
in writing. - the implementation of this fund has shown that we were right when, at its very first stage, we criticised several aspects of its regulation, and that we partially took up this criticism in the subsequent revision which the european commission had to propose, acknowledging some of the criticisms we had made in the original version. we therefore agree that the commission should be asked to bring forward its mid-term evaluation by 30 june 2011 and to accompany it with a proposal to revise the egf regulation to 'remedy its most obvious shortcomings'. but, as i said in the plenary, it is essential not to forget the preventive measures that must be taken to stop multinationals moving, to combat unemployment and to increase employment with rights. it is also essential to ensure that the fund is not used to cover or facilitate redundancies caused by business restructuring or relocation of multinationals. finally, we insist on the need to increase the community contribution from 65% to at least 80% in order to make it possible for member states with the greatest financial difficulties to have recourse to the fund, so that the unemployed who need it most can be supported quickly and effectively.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund has been a very important instrument in helping the thousands of unemployed in the eu who have found themselves in this situation in the face of the relocation of industries to other continents. in the current crisis and in the face of the large increase in the number of collective redundancies, improvements to this instrument are necessary, as well as the search for new sources of financing. hence my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution to agree with the requests made to the european commission to speed up the egf, which include an assessment of the contributions granted taking into account the success rate of reintegration and the increase in the professional qualifications of the beneficiaries, a comparative analysis of the measures financed in response to each egf application and the results obtained on the basis of reintegration and the impact of the egf on its network of beneficiaries and the small and medium-sized enterprises potentially affected by redundancy plans and whose workers could benefit from the fund. i also agree with the request to the commission to make available to the member states a series of guidelines for the design and implementation of applications for egf funding, aimed at a rapid application procedure and a broad consensus among the parties concerned as regards the strategy to be applied and the measures to be taken for the effective reintegration of workers into the labour market. finally, i agree with the call for the member states to set up a structure for the communication and administration of the egf at national level, in liaison with all the parties concerned, in particular the social partners, and to exchange good practice at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the requests made to the european commission to speed up the egf, which include an evaluation of the contributions granted taking into account the success rate of reintegration and the increase in the professional qualifications of the beneficiaries. i also agree with the proposals to the commission which aim to reduce by half the time required for mobilising the egf, in particular that all means should be made available to ensure speedy and enhanced communication with the member state concerned.
in writing. − the structural funds have proved to be invaluable tools for reducing imbalances in the european territory, in particular by supporting the most vulnerable outermost regions. the creation of the european globalisation adjustment fund reflected the european union's recognition that the phenomenon of globalisation has brought about major changes, not always positive, and has had a differentiated impact on europe, with some regions gaining from the process and others losing, and much more. however, this fund has not enjoyed the visibility it deserves, which in my view is mainly due to the enormous time lag between the request for aid by the member state and the actual receipt of the funds. this delay has serious consequences for the families concerned and is linked to the complexity of the application, mobilisation and implementation of funds, which should be simplified as a matter of urgency and as a matter of top priority. only in this way will it be possible to achieve the objective of this fund through the effective reintegration of workers who become unemployed following significant changes in international trade patterns. the report we voted on today reflects an effort to reach a compromise between the various political groups and that is why i supported it.
in writing. - the brussels i regulation provides the basis for european judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters. this instrument is one of the most successful eu legislative acts, having laid the foundations for a european judicial area. it has proved to be very effective in facilitating the settlement of cross-border disputes through a system of judicial cooperation based on global rules of jurisdiction, as well as in relation to the coordination of parallel proceedings and the circulation of judicial decisions. i agree with the need for improvements, such as the abolition of the exequatur procedure in all matters covered by the regulation, allowing for the free movement of judicial decisions to be accelerated, but provided that all the necessary guarantees are safeguarded. i also consider it important to create a european judicial culture through training and the use of existing networks (e.g. the european judicial training network, the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters), which should improve communication between judges. it is essential to create a well-structured and easily accessible legal framework, which should involve the commission's review of the interrelationship between the different regulations dealing with jurisdiction, enforcement and applicable law.
in writing. − aware of the enormous importance of council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 in the field of private international law and the need for an appropriate legal framework to enable the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, i agree with the rapporteur that the revision of this regulation raises very important technical and legal issues. i am inclined to agree with the abolition of the exequatur as proposed in the report and i find many of the proposals contained here interesting and pragmatic. this will be a debate to watch closely.
in writing. the resolution deals with the application of council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 of 22 december 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (brussels i) in the light of the commission's green paper. this regulation, together with the brussels convention which preceded it, is one of the most successful eu legislative acts, having laid the foundations of a european judicial area, bringing good services to citizens and businesses. it has promoted legal certainty and the predictability of decisions by standardising european rules. it does, however, need to be updated. i agree with the abolition of the exequatur (execution clause) as it will speed up the free movement of judicial decisions and is a key pillar in the construction of the european judicial area. however, such deletion must be compensated by appropriate safeguards designed to protect the rights of the party against whom enforcement is sought. i believe that the commission should review the interrelationship between the different regulations dealing with jurisdiction, enforcement and the applicable law and that the overall objective should be a soundly structured and easily accessible legal framework.
in writing. − this report analyses the social integration of women in the context of european union policies. it also analyses the role of women in ethnic minorities. this knowledge base is essential to understanding the integration difficulties faced by these women, which include both traditional minorities and newly established minorities such as immigrants. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to meet the legitimate aspirations of women belonging to minority groups. specific action is needed at eu level, in particular when adopting policies and measures aimed at social inclusion. in addition, as the report advocates, it is essential to encourage the political and social participation of these women in areas such as political leadership, education and culture. this will help to combat their underrepresentation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that women belonging to ethnic minorities are subject to multiple discrimination. this calls for raising public awareness of women's rights, the need to empower women and encourage them to take on leadership roles in their communities. this is also a way of promoting human rights. although social inclusion is still the sole responsibility of the member states, the european commission should take a gender perspective into account when adopting policies and measures aimed at social inclusion.
in writing. − in an increasingly multicultural society, policies to integrate minority groups are of particular relevance as a way of combating discrimination, racism, violence and the exclusion and marginalisation of minority groups, pushing them to the fringes of society. we know that stigmatization and exclusion of minority groups only breeds discontent and revolt, which in turn breeds appetite for transgression and violence. it is up to our society to integrate without discrimination, to accept without excluding. this does not mean, however, that we accept without question all the realities which are part of the culture, tradition or creed of ethnic minorities. this is particularly relevant in customs relating to women. we must therefore firmly combat all cultural practices of discrimination on grounds of sex and all forms of violence still felt against women belonging to certain ethnic groups. integration also means protecting, and in this case protecting women, especially female children, so often the silent victims of customs and traditions that we cannot accept.
in writing. − this resolution addresses social inclusion policies in the european union for women belonging to ethnic minority groups. i would stress the need to promote the education and training of these women and to support their access to the labour market in order to avoid social exclusion and discrimination. only through inclusion can we address the stigma and prejudice that ethnic segregation creates. it should be noted that the european union does not have a legally binding policy on social inclusion, mainly because social inclusion is the responsibility of the member states. however, integration policy has been gaining in importance at eu level and integration is becoming even more important as the economic and social aspects underlying population ageing are becoming more relevant. eu rules and principles apply, in most cases, only to eu citizens who are also citizens of the member states. minorities who have settled and acquired legal status as citizens are protected by the rules and principles of the european union. however, this protection must be extended to migrants who are not yet nationals of a member state.
(gue/ngl), in writing. - the social integration of women belonging to ethnic minority groups is a relevant issue, given that these women are more vulnerable to social exclusion, as the current situation with the unacceptable collective expulsion of the roma population by france clearly demonstrates. it is essential that the fight against all forms of discrimination, whether based on sex, ethnic origin or colour, be placed at the centre of community attention and policies. it is therefore time to break with the macroeconomic policies that exacerbate unemployment, social inequalities and discrimination. as the report says, we must strive for genuine social integration by focusing on quality, universal public services that are accessible to all, including immigrant families and children, in particular in education, health, housing and social protection. no more empty statements and empty words. we need urgent measures to promote dignity and equality and to provide clear answers to social problems, and not to resort to xenophobic and discriminatory actions, which are all the more reprehensible when they come from the government itself.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, among other things, i believe that more structured coordination of european policies in this area is needed to improve the social inclusion of women from ethnic minorities and to stress the importance of educating the host community in the acceptance of different cultures, warning of the impact of racism and prejudice, and also because it calls for the active political and social participation of women from minority ethnic groups in all spheres of society, including political leadership, education and culture, to combat their current marked under-representation.
in writing. - europe is a place of integration and there can be no discrimination of any kind, especially when it is practised against ethnic minority groups and affects women belonging to these groups more strongly. gender equality policy in the eu aims to promote equality between men and women and this objective has been achieved with the indigenous population. however, with regard to certain ethnic minorities, women have suffered all kinds of discrimination. it is therefore necessary to raise awareness of these practices so that the social integration of women belonging to ethnic minority groups is complete. hence my vote.
in writing. - this is a report that focuses on a subject for which european public opinion has become increasingly sensitive, not only because of dramatic situations occurring outside the european union and challenging our moral conscience, but also because of the recognition that problems at this level also occur among us and require our political and civic intervention. women belonging to ethnic minority groups often face pressure from higher-ranking relatives who prefer to maintain traditions that enslave women. as a general rule, they have a low level of education, little information about the possible means of asserting themselves in relation to family authority and the societies in which they are integrated and/or host. at this level, they may still face xenophobic feelings. the development and implementation of european gender equality policy should contribute to decisively reducing the serious injustices to which these women are subjected worldwide and also in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the role of women in an ageing society because i feel it is time to raise awareness of gender inequalities in the older population, which are mainly the result of lifelong gender disadvantages. it is now clear to everyone that older women are at greater risk of poverty because they have reduced pensions because of the gender pay gap or because they have stopped or interrupted their work to devote themselves to their family without having received any pay or having been registered with the social security system. in a time of economic recession, the risk of falling into poverty is even greater for these women. it is time for our institutions to adopt a more positive attitude towards ageing. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to make 2012 the launch year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the adoption of an age-gender approach should become an indispensable tool in policy-making in all relevant areas (economic, social, public health, consumer rights, digital agenda, rural and urban development, etc.).
in writing. − women face increased difficulties in the world of work compared to men. the discrimination against women in employment, career advancement and the right to fair remuneration must be eradicated as a matter of urgency. health care and social services must also be targeted to women's specific needs. all these difficulties are exacerbated by age, which is why this report is so important. in particular, i advocate that the knowledge and experience of older women should be enhanced. finally, the accompanying measures which are envisaged in the report justify my vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'the role of women in an ageing society'. the pay gap between women and men is now over 17% in the european union. this is why, and because women often stay at home during their working lives to care for children or other dependent family members, often opting for parttime work, the pay gap between women and men widen at retirement age. it is urgent for member states to adopt measures to take into account the gender dimension in the reform of pension schemes and the adjustment of the retirement age, taking into account the differences between men and women in working standards and the higher risk of discrimination of older women in the labour market.
in writing. - considering, as the report tells us, 'that gender is a significant factor in ageing, as the life expectancy of women is about six years longer than that of men', and knowing that european society is ageing, the truth is that we will have, increasingly, older women in our society who have to be assured of adequate living conditions and a role which, in many cases, may still be active. we must not forget, as the report also reminds us, that older women are more vulnerable to poverty and therefore need special attention. but more than solutions based on welfare or social status, i believe that these women must be assured of an active role in society. many are professionals with vast experience that can be used to the benefit of the younger ones. others are grandparents and great-grandparents and can, within the family, take on key caring roles, allowing young mothers to better balance family and work. they are invaluable assets and it is our task to encourage and protect them, creating a society of genuine solidarity between generations.
in writing. − this resolution addresses the vulnerability of older women in the context of the phenomenon of population ageing in the eu which is seen as a burden on national economies by ignoring the potential of older people, who are repeatedly seen as passive objects rather than active subjects. i would stress the particular risk of poverty to which older women are exposed, and i therefore support incentives to employ older people, for example through compensation for employers. i do not agree, however, with a specific scheme for older lbt women. with the entry into force of the eu charter of fundamental rights, the prohibition of discrimination on any ground has become part of the legislative competence of the european union. article 21 of the charter prohibits discrimination on grounds, inter alia, of sex, race, colour or ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion, belonging to a national minority, wealth, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation, while article 25 provides that the union recognises and respects the right of older persons to an independent and dignified life and to participate in social and cultural life. i understand that the implementation of these rights will serve to combat any kind of discrimination.
in writing. - while the report is generally positive, it could have gone further in several respects, particularly in analysing the causes of the double discrimination faced by millions of women in the european union, which is aggravated when they are older: migrant women, disabled women, women belonging to minorities, women with low qualifications. working women who have been discriminated against for low wages and devaluation of their work, in many cases coupled with discrimination for maternity, receive low pensions and pensions and live below the poverty line. it is time to put an end to this situation by changing the policies of the european union, breaking with neoliberal policies and focusing on the value of work, respect for human rights, ensuring access to quality public services, particularly health and social protection, pensions and reforms that allow women to live in dignity. we will therefore continue to push for policies that value the role of women and fully respect their rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it takes a correct approach to ageing, focusing on the rights of the individual and, in particular, of older people as active subjects. women continue to see their careers undermined, leading to men being overrepresented in higher-paying, higher-level jobs, which is particularly visible among older women and men. in addition, older women face insurmountable obstacles when looking for a new job, and are completely devalued in the eyes of employers.
in writing. − the ageing of the population and the slow demographic growth that has been occurring in the eu has been a cause for concern regarding the sustainability of social protection and health systems. however, the above is felt with greater emphasis in relation to women, as gender inequality is felt more strongly in older women. this is particularly worrying because women play a very important role in society, particularly in terms of basic community and family support as carers of dependent persons. it is therefore very important to combat age discrimination, which is predominantly found in women. hence my vote.
in writing. − this is a report that focuses on a theme that is becoming increasingly important in western countries, given the traditional increased work that women do in society and the fact that this may be aggravated in a context of an inverted demographic pyramid. in addition to these aspects it is also important to consider that the life expectancy of women is higher than that of men and continues to increase which, being a positive aspect in itself, often implies an increasing number of women who are left to themselves at the end of life. today, often: the adult woman takes care of the children, the parents and the in-laws; later, she takes care of her grandchildren, mother and mother-in-law; and then later on, she's still alone, a widow, and her children are far away because of the extreme mobility that characterizes contemporary societies, with no one to take care of her who took care of everyone. the attention paid to this subject, the means of monitoring the situation it points out and the interventions in this field it advocates, determined my approval.
in writing. − access to information by citizens and communication between voters and policy-makers are important factors in any democratic society and a fundamental condition for the exercise of the right of citizens to participate in public life. conscious of the importance of laying the foundations for a european public sphere understood as an increase [in the media presence of the member states] of european issues in the national spheres, i vote in favour of this report as a whole (alternative, with the amendments proposed by my group and others in parliament). the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step towards a transparent and independent public sphere, which should not be confused with the manipulation of the media or the control of the media in a veiled manner, as i believe happens on a regular basis in my country (see the 'tvi case' which brought the house to this). the report highlights the monitoring and subsequent reporting to the ep by the european audiovisual observatory of the content of public and private broadcasts in the member states, as well as the proposal to integrate europarltv more effectively into the european parliament's internet communication strategy. the first is that it is an excellent input for policy action and the second is that it is an important element of communication.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'journalism and the new media - creating a public sphere in europe' because i believe it is essential to define strategies that will bring european citizens closer to the decision-making bodies in the european union. there is a need to improve communication by the european institutions in order to promote greater transparency and greater involvement of public opinion in political debate, since decisions taken at european level have direct impacts on the lives of citizens.
in writing. − the creation of a european public sphere, which is both positive and very necessary, has been met with indifference from the people and disinterest from national public opinion, which does not seem to be keeping pace with the massive investment in information and dissemination by the institutions and which is, on the contrary, moving away from the european project in a worrying way. as the rapporteur says, such a public information sphere will have to start from below, from a genuine commitment by people and peoples to the original, emerging reality of which we are all a part. despite this conviction, the resolution should be more concerned with strengthening the means than with a real understanding of what underlies the indifference and alienation of the populations.
in writing. - this resolution presents a series of proposals to increase the involvement of european citizens in matters relating to the european union. it is important to encourage citizens' participation in the european integration process and to seek to communicate with them rather than simply inform them. the provision of information by simply making content available is no guarantee of creating interest among the citizens of the member states. it is therefore essential that the sender follows the principles of communication in order to create a dialogue with citizens. the eu has programmes, funds and support available to citizens that most of them are unaware of. i would therefore stress the need to ensure that correspondents from the member states are present to bridge the gap between what is done in brussels and the impact in their countries and regions. the eu is a complex entity in itself, which is not easy to explain. there is no simple one-size-fits-all solution to creating a european public sphere. however, the institutional and technological framework is now better than ever. the lisbon treaty is an important step in the democratisation of the eu, and the new media present citizens with new possibilities for participation in the european integration process.
in writing. − the community institutions have difficulty communicating with eu citizens, who often do not understand the usefulness of the various institutions that make up the eu. it is therefore time to present ways in which european citizens can become more involved in eu matters. there is a need to find ways of communicating that can initiate, encourage and advance european debate and the flow of information, whether through increased discussion of european issues in national media or through a european public sphere. the creation of a public sphere in europe is therefore an essential step towards a greater understanding of european affairs by the entire population of the member states.
mr president, i thank my colleague manfred weber for accepting this question. you said that freedom of movement is not limitless in europe – and you are juridically right – but that it can be restricted on an individual basis. what evidence do you have that this kind of deportation is being performed on an individual basis and how can you contradict the information that we have, both from the press and from the ngos that have been following this, that the main criterion for deportation, indeed the sole criterion, is an ethnic criterion?
it was a little embarrassing to see the president of the commission evade the question this morning, but i must say that this afternoon it has become ridiculous. the first thing the commissioner for fundamental rights comes to us with is talk about crime? commissioner, your portfolio is 'fundamental rights' and i have been a great supporter of your portfolio and of seeing the energy with which you have been devoted to this portfolio, and i am not recognising the commissioner in this role. however, as we speak, the fundamental rights of european citizens, the right to freedom of movement, but also the right to non-discrimination, are being violated. it is the spirit of the treaties that is being violated and it is the very history of this union that is being disrespected. not just the distant history of world war ii, but the history of the 1990s. let us remember what we all said to romania and bulgaria when they wanted to join the european union. we said: if you do not persecute minorities, if you do not ethnically cleanse, if you behave well in the matter of fundamental rights, you can enter the european union. they have entered, only to see that the central and most powerful countries of the european union can then do, without any problem, without any note from the commission, what we said romania and bulgaria could not do before joining the european union.
the dramatic social situation in several countries of the european union is not to be changed by mere words of some interest. we must break with the current economic and financial policies, we must put an end to the stability pact and its irrational criteria, which are a real stick for countries in economic and financial difficulties, which unfortunately is not the case here. while insisting on the implementation of reform plans that are in line with the stability pact and flexicurity, we will continue with the austerity plans that some countries are practicing, as in greece, portugal and spain, with dramatic consequences for the growth of unemployment, poverty, social inequalities and the well-known protest of workers. we therefore insist on proposals to change the existing macroeconomic policies, suspending the stability pact, putting an end to the privatisation and liberalisation processes, giving priority to quality employment with rights, with decent wages and without discrimination against women, promoting the dignity of those who work through a genuine pact for employment and social progress.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the press and of expression is not a medal that has been won over time and can be hung in a window. it is something that must be won every day with effort, and we in europe often forget this. freedom of the press is currently under threat in europe, threatened by the crisis, by the concentration of the media and also by the opportunism of some political leaders. in italy, journalists who publish wiretaps can be fined up to €10,000. mr berlusconi, who controls five of the six television channels, wants to implement a law that would force websites to ask the government for permission to reproduce video or audio reports, expanding his control to new media. in hungary, there is a plan to create an authority over the media controlled by the prime minister. in romania, the supreme national defence council, the military, is asking the local parliament to pay attention to the phenomenon of smear campaigns organized by the media and so on. at the same time, it is not just a problem of states, it is a problem of companies as well. media concentration increases, media owners, owners, increasingly interfere with newsrooms. the commissioner said that the member states have constitutional traditions which protect fundamental rights. but we in europe are also building our own constitutional tradition and we must, for reasons which mrs in 't veld has just mentioned, also extend the defence of media freedom to the european area. some ideas: we need to create ways to support independent and freelance journalists, journalists who are now impoverished and who are easy prey to pressures from the state or from companies. we need to expand anti-trust legislation and we also need to probably create a press support fund to guarantee the independence and quality of the press until a new business model is found on the internet in this transitional phase.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the ecofin council decided to create the european semester to ensure coherence between european economic policies and national budgetary policies. my question is, have you thought about democracy? i'm all for coordination. i'm all for deficit targets and i'd even like to see them on job creation. i accept adjustments to national budgets, although i would like sanctions not to be stupid, not to aggravate the problem, and so i am very comfortable here. what i do not accept at all is that brussels should decide how the states will fulfil the commitments they have made, because that would be tantamount to expropriating the fundamental prerogatives of the national parliaments. what ecofin decides is more than a preview, it is the definition of the guidelines that should govern each national budget. i heard the minister for the presidency say: 'well, but we will not go into details.' i thank you for your magnanimity, but the underlying problem is that the main guidelines will be defined between the 27 governments and in those 27 governments, germany will always tell the greeks what they have to do, but the reverse is not true. the national members, ladies and gentlemen, are not verbs to be filled in. the national members cannot be deprived of a fundamental political choice, namely the freedom to make budgetary choices.
madam president, commissioner, the coordination of efforts in the european semester which was discussed yesterday at ecofin is in itself a positive thing, but it is only part of the reality. growth and employment must be priorities alongside the implementation of the stability and growth pact. it is important that the european monetary fund be set up. it is necessary to deal with sovereign debt alongside all the other obligations required by participation in a monetary area and the development of this work must not be in the direction of the dangerous idea of sanctions and i am counting on commissioner barnier and his experience to help the commission to move in that direction. a second note to congratulate you, sincerely, on the work you have done in financial supervision. i think that commissioner barnier in particular, together with this parliament and the belgian presidency, have managed to reach a good agreement, an agreement which honours us and which defends the interests of the european citizens, and i hope that the agenda that is missing will follow the same methodology and that we will achieve the same success. thirdly, i would like to say to him in particular that i sincerely hope that, with regard to the resolution of banking crises, particularly those involving systemic and crossborder banks, progress will be made in this direction, in order to enhance the european dimension. finally, commissioner, it is very important to review our pro-g20 agenda, particularly if we do not want to give up the fight against fraud and tax evasion, if we do not want to give up the fight against tax havens and if we also want a more determined contribution from banks and financial services to work effectively. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, yesterday's decisions by the ecofin council are inadmissible. while speculators continue to have their hands free for scandalous gains and an effective taxation of financial transactions continues to be delayed, with tax countries flourishing, they have taken advantage of the pretext of the crisis to practice the greatest attack on democracy: the commission has also been trying to turn national members into a kind of european puppet by subjecting national budgets to prior control by the european directorate, as if the strict conditionality of the stability pact and its irrational criteria were not enough. the economic coordination provided for in the treaties cannot justify, either at european or national level, such an infringement of the sovereignty of each member state at a crucial point in its economic and social development. they have gone too far in defending the interests of economic and financial groups and this will have serious consequences for the poor of the european union. so here we have our protest and the certainty that the struggles of the workers and the people will intensify in this european union.
in writing. the ecofin council yesterday took two sound decisions which are in line with the opinion of the large majority of this parliament, which has been formed for months. the first concerns the macro-prudential supervision of the financial system by the esrb, the micro-prudential supervision of banking institutions, insurance companies and pension funds, and the supervision of real estate. the second resolution concerns the european semester as a process of coordination of european economic policy. in addition to ex ante analysis of the comparative budgetary developments in the member states, the european semester should not be interpreted as an invasion of national budgetary autonomy, but rather as a way of discussing a broader view of the economy, not only financial but also and above all covering employment and social inclusion policies. we also share this broad view and want to see it developed in the next steps of economic governance.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, animal protection is a value which europe has an obligation to promote, but what is at stake here goes far beyond this premise and raises difficult questions for us. no value should be regarded as an absolute value in itself. we are therefore faced with choices and contradictions, and only balanced legislation can resolve them. on a scale of values, should animal welfare be subordinated to the value of human health? what is the european research strategy when it comes to, for example, human health and basic research? how can we avoid suppressing european medical research, which could ultimately lead to its destruction? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must have the capacity to develop and promote alternative methods to the use of animals for scientific purposes, but there is a lot of discussion to be had and i would very much like to see it taken further.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to begin by congratulating mrs jeggle on the excellent work she has done on behalf of parliament and her committee on agriculture in the commission and the council. after a year and a half of negotiations, under the swedish, spanish and now belgian presidencies, it was possible to reach a compromise between the requirements of the scientific community and what, in these circumstances, we can call animal welfare. the majority obtained to reach this result was achieved around a very emotional, very intense debate, where everyone made concessions, and with a broad citizen involvement, as you would expect in a matter as sensitive as this. but we as policy-makers have to make decisions and, although we are not without sensitivity to animal suffering, we have to make choices by hierarchising values and this position today brought forward by mrs jeggle reflects an era of hierarchising values which we feel is appropriate between the benefits to human health and the suffering of animals. the socialist group will therefore vote against this report and reject all amendments.
mr president, the report which mrs jeggle is presenting to us today should bring to a close a long and complex process which has been made possible only by hard work and a skillful capacity for dialogue, and for which we thank her. indeed, where the issues under consideration involve not only multiple interests but also moral values, they trigger not only sound rational arguments but also emotions. they do not facilitate the consensus we are seeking here, in order to serve the european citizens, to contribute to the construction of europe by drawing up and presenting common standards, while respecting the positions of the different political groups and the different member states, and it is precisely this desirable standardisation of criteria which is at issue in this report, in the context of the assumption of a higher level of protection of animal life. thus, over a period of two years, and since the decision to revise the 1986 directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes and the recognition of the disparities between the member states, efforts have been made in this context to establish more detailed rules in this area in order to reduce the disparities in procedures. the higher level of protection that should be afforded to animals used for scientific purposes had to be balanced against the imperative of safeguarding the conditions necessary for biomedical research to continue and develop in the european union. this balance has been achieved in the text we are about to vote on. for the benefit of the animals we protect, in fulfilling our human responsibilities to animals and without compromising the quality and progress of biomedical research from which we all benefit every day.
mr president, the development of techniques and methodologies which dispense with animal experimentation and which minimise the suffering inflicted on animals, where this proves necessary, must be an objective of scientific research and experimental and technological development which must be encouraged. in addition to their development, account should be taken of the need for the dissemination of these techniques and methodologies and their uptake by research and development institutions and national scientific and technological systems at different levels of development. the european union should play an important role in this area by promoting cooperation between scientific and technical institutions and systems in different countries, including third countries. in our view, of course, the establishment of common minimum levels of protection in this and other areas should not prevent each member state, if it so wishes, from adopting more advanced protection measures.
mr president, for the last two days we have been inundated with over 400 e-mails on this subject. can the services do something so that we do not have to waste our time deleting them?
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it will update the existing directive, which dates back to 1986, and because it also aims to increase the balance between the interests of the research sector and the strengthening of the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. i also consider essential in this respect the commitment to promote the progress of alternative methods to animal use and to ensure the improvement of animal welfare without compromising progress in this sector. the most important points approved by this report concern animal welfare aspects, namely the implementation of substitution, which is intended to facilitate the advancement of alternative approaches not involving the use of live animals; the introduction of a process for classifying methods used in animals on the basis of pain levels and the setting of a maximum pain limit; and the implementation of the directive through a more effective control system. the lack of oversight has sometimes led to experiments where alternatives to animal use exist still being carried out using animals, especially in basic experiments not intended to test hypotheses put forward by scientists.
in writing. − the use of animals in scientific research is associated with discoveries of great social impact, increased longevity and human well-being. the present state of science does not yet allow for the total abandonment of animal testing. it is therefore imperative to ensure the maximum possible protection and welfare of the animals still used, taking into account the objectives of the experiment. i believe that this revision of legislation sets higher standards by strengthening animal protection. with this directive, the european union will improve its standards for the welfare of animals used in scientific experiments, as it plays a significant role in reducing the number of animals used in experiments and requires the use of alternative methods wherever possible, while ensuring a level playing field for the eu industrial sector and enhancing the quality of research carried out in the eu. the result of today's vote showed a general consensus on the need to improve the situation of animals needed for scientific research and safety testing, while maintaining a high standard of research and intensifying efforts to find alternative methods to animal testing.
in writing. - a civilized society recognises animals as living beings who share our existence and whose pain and suffering must be prevented as far as possible. i do, however, recognise the need for the use of animals in scientific trials to test new medicines and therapies or to enable scientific research to be translated into discoveries that help to cure disease or limit suffering and increase the life expectancy of human beings. the wide diversity of legislation and the lack of adequate protection in some member states called for the adoption of a directive setting minimum standards without prejudice to those states which provide greater protection for the animals concerned. the negotiations between the ep, the council and the commission were not easy, but a text was reached which i believe is overall balanced and which deserves our support. it is a step forward which should be welcomed, even if it could be happier in some respects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes because i believe that the compromise reached with the council reflects the balance that can be struck between the needs of scientific research for the protection of human health and the requirements of animal welfare and rights.
in writing. - as has been said by the parties involved, the text we are adopting today is a satisfactory compromise between the various interests at stake, achieved after long negotiations between the institutions involved - parliament, commission and council. i do not think it is debatable in civilized societies that the use of animals for scientific purposes should be properly regulated, as is the case in europe. and that is what we are talking about here: proper regulation of a use which is fundamental to scientific progress and to the discovery of new procedures, treatments or medicines which in the future will be of greater civilization value and benefit to all. it seems that such regulations cannot be excessive in the protection they afford animals, otherwise they would compromise scientific study and research. in making a choice, i choose the people who will benefit tomorrow from the results of what we allow today to be studied and researched on animals. if the proposal we are adopting today allows for advances in the study of neurological diseases, autoimmune diseases or cancer, amongst others, i believe we will all have won.
in writing. - about 12 million animals are used in scientific procedures in the 27 member states each year. it is important that every effort be made to reduce the number of animals used in these experiments to the minimum necessary. the most pragmatic approach to this end is to use alternative methods, since the current state of science does not yet allow for the complete abandonment of animal testing. directive 86/609/eec on the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes was adopted to harmonise practices in the field of animal experimentation in the eu. however, some member states set ambitious targets while others limited themselves to applying minimum rules. the resolution thus seeks to correct this situation of inequality. a level playing field for industry and the scientific community in the eu should be ensured, while strengthening the protection of animals still used for scientific purposes, in accordance with the protocol on the protection and welfare of animals annexed to the ec treaty. in the field of animal testing, efforts should be made to further promote the development, validation, acceptance and application of alternative methods and to apply the principle of the 3rs of animal testing: replace, reduce and refine.
in writing. - we believe that in this, as in other areas, the establishment of common minimum levels of protection at legislative level should not prevent each member state from adopting more advanced and more stringent protection measures, if it so chooses. we therefore voted in favour of the amendment proposed in this connection. as regards the techniques and methodologies which make it possible to dispense with animal experimentation, as we said in the debate, we believe that it is important to encourage their development, but that more is needed. it is also important to disseminate them and make them assimilatable by the wider r&d institutions, including in the national science and technology systems with comparatively lower levels of development. any legislative framework in this area must take account of this need - a fact which one of the proposed amendments did not seem to us to fully safeguard. the eu should play an important role in this area by promoting cooperation between the scientific and technical institutions and systems of the different countries.
in writing. - the adoption of this report, after tough negotiations between the parties involved, is a balanced compromise, safeguarding both the protection of animals used for scientific purposes and the need for their use to achieve important discoveries and developments in technologies and therapies used later in the cure of many diseases affecting civilization. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, on the understanding that they should stress the importance of the need for a high level of skills for the effective promotion of a good level of employment and income, notably in the new economy, where a strong focus on new sectors and on new skills will be needed. the high level of employment must be possible both for highly qualified people, who can be a key instrument for research and development, but also for people whose educational levels are below the community average, with the member states having an important role to play in re-qualification, the promotion of education and the provision of new lifelong learning opportunities. it is noted that for a good level of employment and full development at community level, it must be ensured that those who strive to improve their qualifications are given genuine employment opportunities, with re-skilling where necessary. a strong focus on career guidance according to present and future needs can be the way to return to high levels of employability.
in writing. - i support the ory report and welcome the opportunity. in the context of agenda 2020, it was urgent not only to establish broad guidelines for economic policies (article 121 tfeu) but also for employment (article 148). the economic crisis we are experiencing is exacerbating social problems and is giving greater urgency to the development of effective and sustained employment policies. i share with the rapporteur the proposals to take stronger action to raise the employment levels of men and women in europe. the report helped to reinforce dimensions that were not sufficiently underlined, such as: 1. reducing unemployment among the most vulnerable groups, including young people, by increasing education levels, reducing school drop-out rates and lifting people out of poverty; 2. equal treatment and equal pay for equal work in the same workplace; 3. involving regional and local authorities, parliaments and social partners in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of these programmes, including the definition of objectives and indicators.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support policies that promote active ageing, gender equality, equal pay for men and women and access to social and occupational protection and benefits for women. in view of the increased difficulties in integrating more women into the labour market, it is necessary to implement policies which also promote reconciliation of work and family life.
in writing. as i said in connection with the pascale gruny report, voted on last july, society has evolved, the world has changed, and industrial relations must necessarily keep pace with this change. i am convinced that this is the case and i welcome the support this parliament gives to more flexible working patterns as a way of combating unemployment. in addition, and because i have had government responsibilities in the field of education, i am pleased to see that this proposal places a very special emphasis on the education and training of workers. this is indeed a bet that should be taken very seriously in the context of the eu 2020 strategy. as the crisis has increased the number of unemployed in europe from 16 million in 2008 to 23 million in 2010, any exit strategy must involve the recovery of jobs, which is only possible with a clear focus on innovation, labour flexibility and new work patterns and the training of young people for an increasingly competitive market.
in writing. − the new employment guidelines for 2020 are set against the backdrop of the economic crisis, the effects of which will continue to have a negative impact on the labour market for years to come. we have the immediate problems of unemployment and, at the same time, long-term challenges, namely demographic change, globalisation and the adoption of new low-carbon technologies. it is therefore very important that a european employment strategy addresses the most pressing problems arising from the crisis and those which arise in the medium and long term. the application of the principles of flexicurity, quality education, lifelong learning and the fight against structural unemployment are indispensable prerequisites for achieving common objectives and targets in the fields of economic growth and social welfare. the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy should therefore start now. the eu structural funds and the cohesion fund of the current programming period should start following this strategy now. it is important that agriculture and the rural world have a prominent place in this strategy. it is necessary to pursue the objectives of cohesion and to create synergies between cohesion policy and other sectoral policies.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution, which ignores the main causes of unemployment, precarious employment and poverty, and rejected the proposals we re-submitted to the plenary, among which we highlight: - the commission should recognise the need to change existing macroeconomic policies (suspend the stability pact, put a stop to privatisation and liberalisation processes) in order to prioritise the creation of quality work with rights for all workers and better wages, reducing poverty levels and increasing social inclusion and progress. - undeclared work must be combated by more stringent controls by the labour inspectorate and tax measures for low-income persons. - i know . the council should agree on an eu-wide commitment to end homelessness by 2015 and prepare integrated policy measures to ensure access to affordable, quality housing with sufficient energy supply for all. the inclusion of a new gender equality directive, which we proposed, was also rejected, arguing that member states, through specific gender equality objectives, gender mainstreaming and specific policy actions, should increase female employment, fully respecting women's rights and eliminating all inequalities.
in writing. − the current economic crisis is the major variable that has to be weighed when we talk about the new employment guidelines in 2020, as it will have a very significant impact on the labour market in the coming years. although there is evidence of a recovery in some eu economies, the economic situation in the vast majority of member states remains very fragile. on the other hand, the crisis has not yet fully affected unemployment, so there will still be many thousands of unemployed as a result of the current crisis. the major challenges are demographic change, globalisation and the adoption of new technologies, including low-carbon technologies. the european employment strategy for the next decade must therefore concern itself not only with the most pressing problems resulting from the crisis but also with those arising in the medium and long term. hence my vote.
in writing. − the debate on the new employment guidelines for 2020 comes at a time when thousands of families across europe are facing the drama of unemployment in the context of the economic crisis. these guidelines, which are part of the europe 2020 strategy, cover both the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines. the report we voted on today, which i supported, is in line with the european commission's proposal, although the rapporteur was concerned to ensure that these guidelines were clear and useful for member states' policy-making. the promotion of employment will necessarily require sustained economic growth, the ability of firms and workers to adapt to new realities, the attainment of high levels of education, especially among young people, continuing training that meets the needs of firms and the involvement of the social partners in all these processes. this is what the rapporteur has tried to do by specifying targets for increasing employment and its quality, raising educational levels and reconciling family and working life, reducing school dropouts and the percentage of the population living in poverty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the human rights situation in iran. i did so because i am convinced that the sentencing to death by stoning of sakineh ashtiani is a clear violation of iran's international obligations. regardless of the facts, this type of punishment can never be justified or acceptable. torture, clandestine detention, physical and sexual violence, and impunity for state agents remain widespread in many countries, raising serious doubts about the fairness and transparency of judicial proceedings. the continued persecution of ethnic and religious minorities and the continued criminalization of free sexual relations between adults is unacceptable. it is up to us, as europeans who defend human rights and the democratic values on which our institutions are based, to exert all possible pressure on the iranian authorities to have such proceedings reviewed. this pressure has already borne fruit as the iranian government has announced the suspension of the death sentence for stoning against sakineh ashtiani. i cannot help but pay tribute to the courage of all iranian men and women who are fighting to defend their fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - sakineh ashtiani is the face of executions in iran and the symbol of the injustice of judicial processes and the violation of basic rights. i want to add my voice to the international solidarity movements calling for the annulment of the sentence and the immediate release of sakineh ashtiani. demanding their release is also fighting for equal rights for women and for freedom of expression and active participation in a free society. i strongly support the causes against discrimination and in particular the cause of iranian women. i would like to highlight your role at the forefront of the struggle for democracy, freedom and equal rights in iran. the courage and determination of iranian women is an inspiration to us all.
in writing. - the theocratic dictatorship in iran sows hatred and breeds intolerance. its fiery speech in favour of the destruction of israel and its nuclear programme which continues without international control or oversight are threats to world peace. islamic courts apply a barbaric law, in itself a denial of justice, putting women in a situation of near slavery. the case of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani is unfortunately not unique, and we must support all the other women condemned to death without respect for human dignity, women's rights and human rights. reaffirm my opposition to the death penalty and call on the iranian authorities, in accordance with un resolutions 62/149 and 63/138, to establish a moratorium on executions pending the abolition of the death penalty; i condemn the arrest and call for the immediate release of zahra bahrami, a dutch citizen who was travelling to iran to visit her family, and who was detained following the achoura protests on 27 december 2009 and forced to make televised confessions admitting the charges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on 'human rights in iran', which i am a supporter of, because i consider it an ethical imperative to put pressure on the iranian authorities not to commit this heinous crime. i am proud to have been born in the country that has led the way in abolishing the death penalty. sakineh mohammadi has committed no crime and yet she is in prison and has been sentenced to death by stoning and is constantly humiliated and whipped. i express my deep concern at the continuing reports of persecution by the iranian authorities of political opponents and human rights defenders, in particular women and young students. this is a clear violation of the united nations universal declaration of human rights and an abuse of judicial powers.
in writing. - the needless and disproportionate violence not only hurts our european sensibilities but also directly clashes with the body of values and rights which, being of western origin, are today, fortunately, the heritage of humanity. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european framework for the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos. unfortunately, there are still states and nations that persist in condoning deplorable practices against women and in imposing cruel, brutal and manifestly disproportionate punishments on them and in nurturing cultures that oppress, degrade and humiliate women simply because of who they are. it is precisely because i am in favour of the complementarity of the sexes based on their natural differences and their equality of rights that i can only condemn in the strongest possible terms these despicable practices.
in writing. we are against the death penalty in any country, whether in the us, iran or any other country in the world. we are equally against all forms of torture practiced anywhere, including in iran and in cia-controlled prisons. that is why we urge iran to spare the life of sakineh ashtiani and call for an end to the stoning of women, young people and others. that is why we voted in favour of this resolution. but we stress that the struggle for respect for democracy in iran, the defence of the rights of those who continue the struggle for social justice, progress and democracy in that country cannot, under any circumstances, be used against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and power of decision-making over the future of iran. it can hardly justify interventions and interferences which do not respect its territorial sovereignty.
in writing. - the situation in iran with regard to human rights is absolutely reprehensible and the eu, as a defender of human rights throughout the world, cannot remain indifferent and must express its utter disgust at the various cases of death sentences by stoning that have been taking place in that country for several years. the eu must send a clear signal that this kind of practice cannot happen in a country that wants to be respected and wants to maintain normal diplomatic relations with all the eu member states. hence my vote.
the environmental catastrophe under discussion today, although it is taking place outside the geographical area of the union, concerns all of us, european citizens. the notion of sustainable development that we believe in is a concept that has no administrative boundaries, no religious creeds, and that looks at the planet as a whole and not as the sum of its parts. the jordan river is therefore a problem for all of humanity and not just for the people or communities directly affected by the scarcity or poor quality of its water. "think globally, act locally", common sense tells us. that's what we're doing here today: thinking globally. as the european union, we must help to act locally as a way of minimising and reversing this permanent degradation of the flow and quality of the jordan river. and to act, or help to act, the union already has a legislative, institutional and instrumental framework at its disposal. i am referring to the union for the mediterranean, its secretariat and femip, managed by the european investment bank. this is obviously a subject which the delegation of this parliament which i chair, the relationship with the countries of the maxerque, will be following closely. it is obvious that action to resolve this environmental tragedy must first be taken by the states and local authorities whose people directly benefit from it. in this context, i would like to stress two ideas in the resolution. firstly, the creation of a committee for the management of the whole jordan river basin, made up of representatives of the states or authorities using those waters. and here europe can help by sharing, for example, the experience of the international commission for the protection of the rhine. secondly, the support and dissemination of good practice in relation to joint community projects involving jordanian, israeli and palestinian citizens, in particular those promoted by the friends of the earth middle east, which mr de ross has just mentioned, with regard to the efficient and correct management of the water resources of the jordan valley basin. finally, mr president, and on a still wider scale, i would like to highlight the example of cooperation and peaceful coexistence which this design represents. at a time when we regret the absence of the european union in the process, but welcome and encourage the resumption of the new process of direct dialogue between israel and the palestinian authority, we would like to welcome this direct involvement of both sides.
we have been discussing freedom of movement a lot in this parliament this week, and in particular freedom of movement originating in these countries, romania and bulgaria, not only in relation to the question of workers but also yesterday in relation to the roma or roma minority, and we have often lost ourselves in the legal details of this issue, forgetting to say that the law should be only a minimum framework for a spirit of the european union which is freedom of movement. the law is the minimum threshold from which freedom of movement is increased and what the governments of some member states are doing now is using the law as a way of going against what is the constitutional spirit of the union, and we here in the european parliament are getting too caught up in this legal analysis, forgetting that we are a political chamber and not a legal consultancy firm. we must be the bearers of a vision for europe and we must say more often and more emphatically that freedom of movement is the aim of the union. i also believe that the commission is falling far short of what is desirable. the role of the commission has changed recently. the commissioner tells us that the restriction is a right of the member states and that the commission has nothing to do with it. yes, it does! the commission is the guardian of the treaties and the commission has to be much more emphatic and has to be much more passionate, i would say, in defending freedom of movement, because we know that the large regional units, like the united states or brazil, or those with whom we compete, like these two, which have freedom of internal movement, react much better to crises, because their workforce can look for work where it exists and we in europe, of course, have this pressing difficulty in reacting to this crisis. the member states, acting for national selfishness, forget the interests of all. when they do so with the capital market, the commission speaks and does so emphatically, why does the commission not speak when it comes to the freedom of workers?
recent mass expulsions of romanian and bulgarian nationals by the french government show the serious consequences of the temporary restrictions affecting citizens of the new member states of the european union. apart from the seriousness of racism and xenophobia at the state level, which is unacceptably affecting roma or roma citizens, what the governments of france and other european union member states are trying to hide with these measures is the failure of their neoliberal policies which are creating unemployment and poverty. the central question here is whether the european commission, the council and the governments are prepared to commit themselves to a policy of growth, employment with rights and social progress that ensures well-being for all and puts an end to discrimination between citizens who are also europeans. that is the challenge here, commissioner.
i would also like to thank you for the information you have given us. ladies and gentlemen, all forms of biotechnology arouse fears in the public, which is particularly sensitive to these issues. animal cloning is not an exception to this rule. it is therefore up to us as policy-makers to promote a sufficiently informed debate to allow an unbiased analysis of the issue. it is important to mention here that i am talking about animal cloning for food production which, from the point of view of food safety, is covered by existing regulations, and it is currently the review on novel foods which has been the subject of extensive discussion in this parliament. recent events in the uk this summer have brought this issue to the public's attention and revealed an apparent dissonance between european legislation and its national application. the scientific reports prepared by efsa allow to conclude, for bovine and porcine species only, that there are pathologies associated with the development of clones that raise animal welfare concerns and that have been considered sufficient by the european ethics group to consider animal cloning for food production as unjustified. from the point of view of food safety, the same scientific reports concluded that there was no difference between cow's milk and beef and veal from healthy clones and their progeny compared to the same products from conventional animals. however, these reports stress that the data available are limited, that it has not been possible to carry out extensive studies throughout the life of the clones and their progeny, which leads to some uncertainties as to the conclusions already reached, and it is because of these uncertainties that it is necessary to promote this debate in a scientifically based way, in order to respond to the demands of the citizens without irresponsibly vetoing the possibilities of science. i am grateful to the commissioner for his presence and look forward to the report he will be submitting to us on the regulations needed to promote the cloning technique and the products obtained from it.
mr president, commissioner, the entry of products derived from cloned animals into the food chain in an unauthorized, unidentified and unreported manner cannot but be a cause for concern. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union's action in this field must be guided first and foremost by safeguarding the public interest, by a high level of protection of human health, food safety and the environment, and by promoting animal welfare. these are values which should prevail over any others. in future, if these products are allowed to be marketed, the principle of transparency, information and consumer choice will also have to be respected, which is unfortunately not the case today, for example, with food containing genetically modified organisms or animals fed on such organisms.
mr president, the postal services are an essential means of communication. they play an important role in competitiveness and in the objectives of social, economic and territorial cohesion. it is therefore unacceptable that rural dwellers do not have access to services of the same quality as others. the most disadvantaged or isolated populations have the right to quality postal services. it is true that in some member states, such as portugal, there has been a decrease in the number of access points to services in rural areas and a decrease in the quality of service. the quality of these services must be increased or maintained, but never diminished. we must also avoid that the application of european legislation leads to negative impacts on the working conditions and wages of postal employees. we cannot accept that competitors for service providers only want to eat the meat and leave the bones for others. i am referring, for example, to competitors who want to provide services only in the places where distribution is profitable, i.e. in the most densely populated areas. the commission is therefore required to find solutions to avoid the problems i have just mentioned, while also ensuring that the legislation on this matter is complied with and, if necessary, improved.
the commissioner, throughout europe, the testimonies of the people and the workers in the sector converge on an undeniable reality: the liberalization of postal services, contrary to what was and is proclaimed by those who promoted and promote it, has led to a significant degradation of the services provided and to an unprecedented attack on the rights of workers in the sector. as in other sectors, privatisation follows liberalisation and this is monopolistic concentration on a european scale. the consequences are visible, even in countries where the process is still in its most backward stages: reduced geographical coverage, reduced frequency of distribution, higher prices, social and labour dumping. for these reasons, workers and the population are united in a common struggle against the privatization and destruction of this important public service. we want to salute them, to value their example and to stress the importance of their struggle. the commission should pay more attention to them.
i am only saying this to congratulate the members who have signed the petition calling for the establishment of a european year against violence against women. we consider this very important and hope that the european commission will take this statement into account. thank you very much to each and every one of you who collaborated.
in writing. − this initiative aims to examine the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, ensuring that they are respected in the union's proposals. subsidiarity is a dynamic and evolving concept, and allows the union to extend its action where necessary and to limit it where it is no longer justified. proportionality is a guiding principle for the exercise of the union's exclusive or shared competences, which should not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives. it highlights two major innovations in this area: the creation of the impact assessment committee and the fact that the entry into force of the lisbon treaty gives national parliaments an important role in assessing how these two principles are applied - ex ante political control, which can lead to a review or possible withdrawal of the proposal, or ex post judicial control, with recourse to the court of justice if they consider that these principles have been breached. this evaluation system enables the union to legislate better by presenting an analysis and justification of its proposals, and improves their quality, rigor and transparency. i welcome the fact that the impact assessment system is working properly and i support the strengthening of the analysis process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on better lawmaking, because i support the need to draw up legislation that is simple, transparent and understandable to european citizens. it is also important to ensure that administrative burdens are reduced and that the economic, social and environmental impacts of all new commission proposals are assessed with due scrutiny by an independent body, which must, however, be accountable to parliament.
in writing. - i fully support the concern expressed in the resolution that simple, transparent and understandable legislation be drawn up for european citizens. despite well-intentioned statements, rigorous studies and lucid reports from various institutions, the truth is that european legislation continues to suffer from the evils that are often pointed out to it: excessive volume, inadequate complexity, unintelligibility and chain relays. this can not only distract citizens from decisions taken at european level but also contribute to the debate, which is not always very reasonable or rigorous, on european intrusion into matters on which it would not have to take a decision or legislate if the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality were more scrupulously observed. that is why this resolution is on the right track.
in writing. − this resolution addresses the theme 'better lawmaking' which covers the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality which are indispensable to the proper functioning of the european union, through, for example, the need for impact assessment studies of the lawmaking process, the simplification and harmonisation of law and the reduction by 25% by 2010 of the administrative burden resulting from european law. i would like to highlight the european citizens' initiative introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which will allow citizens to participate actively in the process of creating european law, the fact that the european parliament is now on an equal footing with the council in the ordinary legislative procedure and the involvement of national parliaments in monitoring the application of the principle of subsidiarity. in this context, in accordance with article 225 of the lisbon treaty and because it is an example of 'best legislation', i proposed in an own-initiative report the drawing up of a specific directive on bio-waste, which was approved by a majority in the july plenary session, and to which i hope the commission will respond promptly.
in writing. - given the complexity of the issues dealt with in the eu, legislation is often too complex and not very understandable to the vast majority of european citizens. this is why we need legislation that is simple, transparent and understandable to all the citizens of the member states. at the same time, in view of the crisis we are going through and the high costs involved in the legislative process in the eu, it is necessary to find mechanisms which significantly reduce these costs, so that we can be the first to set a good example in the use of the community budget.
in writing. - better regulation has become an essential condition for the proper functioning of the european union and for the correct application of european law based on greater transparency, effectiveness and consistency of decisions. the correct application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, now reinforced after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should contribute to simpler legislation and better understanding by citizens and to european decisions being taken as close as possible to the citizen. the lisbon treaty provides that the european parliament must act on an equal footing with the council and provides for closer involvement of national parliaments in monitoring the application of the principle of subsidiarity. in addition, the union regulatory environment should continue to promote impact assessments and the reduction of administrative burdens. as the report which i am voting in favour of states, only by significantly reducing administrative burdens and by effectively applying european laws in the internal legal systems, as well as by efficient impact assessments taking account of economic, social and environmental aspects, can we actually legislate better.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the s&d group resolution on the situation of the roma population in europe because i am seriously concerned about the measures taken by the french state against this community and therefore obviously in favour of the immediate suspension of this process. the french state began to carry out mass expulsions of european citizens belonging to this minority last august. the roma community is the largest ethnic minority in the european union with populations established in several member states of our union. the right of all union citizens to move and live freely throughout the european area is a pillar of european citizenship as defined by the treaties. i do not understand the european commission's deafening silence. the commission should have responded by explaining that if a member state is lawfully expelling european citizens, it must be based on public policy reasons, be analysed on an individual basis and be proportionate to the threat to public policy and never constitute a collective sanction against an ethnic minority. we can also ask ourselves whether the use of financial resources to justify voluntary departures does not constitute a manipulation of the freedom of citizens and a legally illegitimate way of escaping the definition of expulsion?
in writing. - i am in favour of a constructive approach, based on dialogue about cultural diversity and what it represents in terms of human wealth. education is key to the integration process. by providing education and training, we are fighting against exclusion, unemployment and discrimination. we are also ensuring a more just, more creative and more dynamic society. it is important to integrate ethnic minorities not only into the labour market but also into all spheres of society. protecting fundamental rights and creating a common area of freedom, security and justice are objectives of european integration. i applaud all those who promote integration at the local level, including politicians, teachers and associations, as they are often responsible for access to housing, health care, education, culture and an increased quality of life.
in writing. - unlike other colleagues, i do not question the legality of the expulsion decisions taken by the french authorities. all member states have the possibility to do so on legitimate grounds of internal security and public policy. what i regret is the associated discourse which seems to be aimed at accusing an entire ethnic group and provoking unacceptable xenophobic reactions. if one european commits a crime, we cannot conclude that all europeans are criminals. if a gypsy steals, we can't conclude that all gypsies are criminals. the mechanisms to support roma inclusion and to combat all forms of discrimination should be strengthened, by encouraging children to go to school and protecting their fundamental rights. no one is above the law, not the nomadic peoples or the public authorities. and everyone should responsibly contribute to solving the problems and not inflame the mood or increase the tension.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation of the roma population in europe by condemning the measures taken by the french authorities and the authorities of other member states targeting the roma and their expulsion. i hope that these authorities will suspend the expulsions of roma, which are prohibited by the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i would remind you that these measures are contrary to the treaties and eu law.
in writing. - this resolution comes at a time when contradictory statements are being made about the expulsion of members of the roma ethnic group from french territory. i believe that this is too serious a matter to be debated in a more passionate than rational way and that it deserves a different political climate that fosters a debate that is able to resist the clichés. i therefore believe that the house should not have opted for this untimely schedule. that said, i reject today, as i will always reject, any political, military or police reaction against members of any ethnic group simply because they belong to it. the history of the 20th century has, unfortunately, been too full of situations in which people were condemned not for doing anything but for being what they were. the brutal legacy of nazism and communism proves this to the full. i believe that all the member states of the union have an incomparable record in respect for ethnic and religious minorities.
in writing. - the expulsion of roma by the french and other european union governments is a reprehensible act. unfortunately, this racist and xenophobic act, which seeks to deflect attention from the serious social crisis we are experiencing and to find scapegoats, was not immediately opposed by the european commission and the council. we have no illusions about the hypocritical role played by the eu institutions in this whole process, especially when we remember that they are so diligent in criticism and interference with third countries. but in this case, when it comes to citizens of eu countries, they either cross their arms or make mere statements of fact. where is the european union, which claims to be the world's greatest defender of human rights? no other position would be acceptable here but condemnation. experience shows that, in the case of france, one of the countries in the directory of the big eu countries, they always use all discretion. what is needed is a break with the neoliberal policies which the conservatives and social democrats continue to practise. new policies are urgently needed to promote employment with rights, welfare and social progress for all. this is the way to prevent rulers, as in france, from turning racism and xenophobia into state policies, and not turning the eu into a police force for the member states, as some people want, by taking advantage of the reprehensible acts of certain governments.
in writing. - france has been an example for several decades in terms of the integration of citizens from all over the world who have chosen france as their destination. it is recalled that romanian citizens will only benefit from full freedom of movement in 10 eu countries, one of which is france, as of january 2014. in addition, all eu citizens may be required to provide proof of their subsistence after a stay of more than three months in a country other than their own. and if they prove too burdensome for the social security of the receiving countries, measures may be decided - see points (9) and (10) of directive 2004/38/ec. if the mass expulsion of romanian citizens of roma ethnicity can be questioned, those who are violently insurgent should also be concerned much more, and with equal intensity. they should be concerned about children who are generally denied access to schooling by their families, children and women who are used to begging, begging as a life choice, work that is rejected and the use of social security schemes in third countries as an alternative. hence my vote.
in the light of the above, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the draft resolution. the roma are a minority ethnic group, most of whose members are citizens of a member state of the union. european citizens have the right to move and reside freely within the eu, provided that the conditions laid down in directive 2004/38/ec are met. however, this freedom may be restricted on grounds of public policy, public security or public health. we must not forget, however, that a measure such as the expulsion of eu citizens must be applied on a case-by-case basis and not be attributed to groups or communities. the solution to the problem is to implement a european roma strategy which will allow for cooperation between states, institutions and other parties and involve roma communities in its planning and implementation, as well as the establishment of an intervention programme in marginalised areas with structural disadvantages. i would like to remind you of the opportunity offered by the erdf legislation with regard to the eligibility of housing interventions for marginalised communities and the need for better action by the european platform for roma inclusion. equally important will be the development of a constructive dialogue between the states and the members of the roma community. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
the commission has also been asked to submit a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. the roma are a minority ethnic group, most of whose members are citizens of a member state of the european union. all european citizens have the rights and obligations provided for in directive 2004/38/ec on the right of free movement within the european union, in accordance with the conditions laid down therein. however, member states have the right to restrict the free movement and establishment of european union citizens on their territory, irrespective of their nationality, on grounds of public policy, public security or public health. member states are not obliged to inform the european commission before applying this public policy clause, which remains a matter for their sovereignty. while i share the conviction that the european union and the member states share the responsibility to promote the inclusion of the roma community through an integrated strategy and through the collaboration of the states with the european commission and other european institutions and other stakeholders in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination, i cannot vote in favour of condemning the commission's late and limited reaction to the situation of roma in europe and to the verification of respect for human rights, as this is a shared responsibility. for these reasons i abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on long-term care for the elderly because i consider it of the utmost importance to ensure the conditions for active ageing, with increased assistance that ensures a better quality of life for all elderly people in the eu. the resolution aims to reduce health inequalities and protect older people in the european union and, in the context of care provision, to combat ill-treatment in many situations inflicted on older people, to adopt more effective human resource strategies to tackle staff shortages and to contribute to the spread of information and communication technologies that promote family care and the autonomy of older people. i hope that this proposal will enable the european commission to collect data on best practices in long-term care which could be an asset for the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations (2012), with the aim of reducing any kind of discrimination, improving long-term care and the impact of poverty among older people. i also note the creation of an observatory on active ageing, with a view to disseminating good practice.
in writing. − quality education and training are essential for the personal development of individuals, equality and the fight against social exclusion and poverty, active citizenship and social cohesion. i call on the member states to regulate the qualification requirements for care providers for elderly people and to define and implement advanced training systems which contribute to raising the level of training of staff working in the care system for elderly people and therefore to improving the quality of the services offered. increased investment in the provision of specialist geriatric medical care is essential to increase the quality of care provided to older people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution for advocating access to quality health services and adequate care for older people. in view of the demographic developments of recent years, in particular the ageing of the population, it is necessary to support the elderly so that they can lead a dignified and independent life in their own homes.
in writing. - with the increase in average life expectancy and the growing vulnerability of the elderly to dependence on social benefits, which are in many cases insufficient, and the breakdown of family relations, we are faced with a situation in which many people, in the most difficult phase of their lives, find themselves alone and without economic autonomy and, in many cases, in dramatic situations of poverty, thus requiring the states to take charge of the provision of basic care. in europe, as in portugal, the subject of continuing care is very important to the cds, and our advocacy for several years has been clear: the creation of appropriate networks for the provision of this type of care and support for families with elderly people and private care providers. i am pleased to see that it is proposed here that states should support informal, often family, providers of continuing care and that these carers, who take on a role that would otherwise be the state's, should be given the necessary conditions so that they can take care of their own without being penalized (professionally, for example).
in writing. − in recent years, the eu has seen a demographic shift towards an ageing population. this phenomenon has generated strong budgetary pressures and a great demand for better health care and social services infrastructure. this requires policies to include older people and to combat all forms of age discrimination. it is strange that in many member states the funding and provision of specialist geriatric medical care has declined. the provision of care for the elderly population must be of high quality. member states should therefore have policies to improve vocational training. i would also like to point out the enormous contribution made by private social welfare institutions, religious and charitable organisations in this area. member states should be particularly vigilant in ensuring the protection of the fundamental rights of persons receiving long-term care. member states should give priority to the establishment of home palliative care units; and define and implement training systems for staff working in the care system for older people. the commission shall draw up a study providing a clearer picture of the needs for care for the elderly and an estimate of the specialised services to be provided by 2020.
in writing. - scientific and technological progress and the positive evolution of civilizations have made it possible to extend the life span of people. but now, with neoliberal theses and capitalism's constant aim of increasing profits, governments tend to devalue the role of older people and to regard the ageing of societies as a burden. which is unacceptable. the resolution, while it certainly does not go into the depths of the issues, particularly the causes that are at the root of the devaluation of social support, calls for action to be taken against the social exclusion of the elderly and against all forms of age discrimination. it also condemned the decline in specialist geriatric medical care, the lack of training for specialised staff in elderly care and the lack of facilities and services for close-up or home care of the elderly in conditions accessible to all. we therefore join the call, but we will continue to fight against the causes of this situation so that there is a real change in policies in favour of older people.
in writing. - this is an issue to which my party has attached great importance and which we consider to be of great importance in order that elderly people with serious health problems can end their lives in the best possible conditions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's social security system. that is what my party has been advocating in portugal, and has put forward several proposals in the portuguese parliament on this subject.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation of the jordan river because i consider it essential to draw attention to the destruction of the jordan river and in particular its lower course by calling on the governments of israel and jordan, as well as the palestinian authority, and with the support of the european union, to set up a committee for the jordan river basin, which would be open to other countries bordering the river. i believe it is necessary to draw up a management plan capable of repairing the damage caused to the jordan river and to continue to provide financial and technical support for the rehabilitation of the jordan river, and in particular its lower course. the question of the management of water resources through an equitable distribution of water that respects the needs of all the peoples living in the region is of the utmost importance for the establishment of lasting peace and stability in the middle east. in this connection, i consider it essential to intensify efforts to provide additional financial and technical support for projects in the field of water management, and to call for their equitable use and the transfer of the technologies involved to all the countries of the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation of the jordan river because its environmental, landscape, cultural, historical, agricultural and economic value must be preserved. proper management of water resources, which respects the needs of all the peoples of the region, is also of the utmost importance for stability in the middle east.
in writing. the problems of the jordan river go far beyond the normal concern about the state of environmental degradation of the waterways. as is recognized by the resolution we passed, the jordan is not just a river. its significance goes far beyond its river status and reverberates in the political, symbolic and religious spheres of states, nations and peoples of the most varied latitudes. the particular importance which the history of mankind has attached to it justifies the concern of europe and, in particular, of this house, about its fate. i hope and wish that the states bordering the jordan will put aside their traditional differences and mistrust and work together to avoid further degradation of the river.
in writing. the jordan river, and in particular its lower course, represents a cultural landscape of universal significance, of great historical, religious and environmental importance. it has been unfortunately devastated due to over-exploitation, pollution and poor management of its water flow leading to a 50% loss of its biodiversity. the rehabilitation of the jordan river, and in particular its lower course, is of great importance to the local communities of israel, jordan and palestine, which share the same water challenges. it also provides benefits in the economic sphere and in terms of strengthening mutual trust. the existence of active cooperation between the governments and local communities involved can make an important contribution to regional peace efforts. it therefore calls on the authorities of the countries concerned to cooperate and rehabilitate the jordan river by defining and implementing policies focused on concrete results in managing water demand for domestic and agricultural use, preserving water and natural resources, and invites the council, the commission and the eu member states to promote and support a comprehensive management plan capable of repairing the devastation caused to the jordan river.
in writing. as stated in the resolution, the jordan river basin, particularly in its lower course, is a cultural landscape of universal significance, of great historical, symbolic, religious, environmental, agricultural and economic importance in the middle east and beyond. the river's state of ecological degradation and the levels of pollution it presents are thus a serious cause for concern. the desirable and necessary restoration of the jordan river - an environmental, social and cultural imperative - is of course inseparable from the regional geopolitical context. it must be recognised that the palestinian population in the west bank faces a problem of severe water shortages, a problem which arises from the fact that much of this water is used by israel and israeli settlers in the west bank, as well as continuing to occupy a part of the golan heights where important water sources are located. equitable distribution of water resources, which equally respects the needs of all the peoples living in the region, is of the utmost importance for the establishment of lasting peace and stability in the middle east, and this in turn is inseparable from the desired rehabilitation of the lower jordan.
this parliament, the commission and the council and the european governments must unequivocally condemn the invitation and reception given by the kenyan authorities to president al-bashir of sudan, by not arresting him despite the international criminal court's arrest warrant for war crimes and genocide committed against his own people in darfur. kenya has not only violated its international obligations as a state party to the international criminal court, but also its obligations as a member of the cotonou agreement and must therefore face the consequences. the kenyan authorities have seriously compromised the interests of the people of their country by confronting all those in africa and the world who are working to end the impunity of criminals like al-bashir. the kenyan authorities, with the miserable endorsement of the african union and the league of arab states, are embarrassing africa by becoming complicit in a criminal who will sooner or later be arrested and face international justice.
a writer. - madam president, we are discussing here today another human rights violation: the arrest of the syrian activist haythan al maleh, an 80-year-old lawyer, accused of spreading false, exaggerated news that undermines the national feelings of his country. in addition to violating numerous international treaties and conventions, the arrest of this human rights defender is also contrary to the country's own law, which stipulates that military courts should not have jurisdiction to try civilians. the decision taken in relation to this man, and in relation to other syrian prisoners held for similar reasons, the various detentions, restrictions on freedom of movement and arbitrary measures taken by the syrian authorities are practices which are in contradiction with the important role of syria in the whole region and do not reflect the efforts that have been made in this country to improve the social situation. i repeat, we are discussing another human rights situation today. it's impossible to separate it from the various discussions we've had here this week. i would like to highlight two: the first is the rejection of the death sentence by stoning imposed on sakineh ashtiani. many voices have come together and there have been some results. secondly, we have today adopted an important resolution against the abuses imposed by the sarkozy government on the romanian and bulgarian citizens. the defence of human rights knows no borders and is not a struggle that can be waged only outside. today we gave a good example of how to lock it inside doors too. the unjustified imprisonment of haythan al maleh has brought us all together here today. he's a human rights advocate. human rights defenders must be free people and that is what we demand of the syrian authorities. we, also human rights defenders, will not leave you alone.
madam president, air transport plays a decisive role in the mobility of people and in the dynamics of the world economy, which are increasingly determined by globalisation. the current european legislation governing the investigation of aviation accidents is outdated in the face of developments in this area and the emergence of new actors such as the european aviation safety agency. the level of accident investigation capabilities of the member states should be harmonised. however, the priority must be to prevent accidents and research must always be an aid to prevention. it should be noted that the strong pressure to reduce costs is conducive to increased risks in terms of safety. but the economy cannot be placed above people and we cannot accept proposals such as the elimination of a co-pilot or the opening up of the possibility for passengers to travel on foot. research yes, but prevention and quality service first.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. of course, a plan which i think can make some sense, which is the fact that this is the first agreement of this kind to be voted by this parliament since lisbon. and so i think there is a plan here for the control of parliamentary scrutiny which must be much more fine-tuned and much more in-depth when we have agreements like this on the table. i therefore believe that parliament will be wise to raise its doubts and, in particular, to expect that there will be much more clarification and that subsequent agreements, such as those now on the table, when they come to be approved by this parliament, will bring much more provisions for control, for monitoring the burden of proof, which should be placed on the right people, on the authorities, and not on immigrants, or the poor and refugees. on the other hand, this agreement with pakistan raises a great many doubts in my mind. the question immediately arises whether this is an agreement not for the readmission of pakistanis but, behind closed doors, an agreement for the readmission of afghans. it is, of course, as some of my colleagues have already said, a country which has not signed the 1951 geneva convention on refugees and the european union cannot have two choices in this matter. either we comply with the conventions we have signed and therefore respect human rights 100%, or we will not respect 90% or 80%, outsourcing those who may not respect human rights. we have many cases of expulsion and persecution of women from pakistan, of religious and ethnic minorities, and it is certainly not with the kind of opacity that we have from the pakistani authorities that we can function at this level. in conclusion, i would just like to remind you of something in conclusion. we were discussing the floods in pakistan here 15 days ago. they have caused 21 million displaced persons, fugitives, wounded and many thousands of deaths. i think there is a certain coldness on the part of the european parliament in approving, 15 days later, an agreement which is basically designed to send back to pakistan people who are fleeing from a situation as serious as the one they are living in now.
madam president, i congratulate mr csaba sógor on his report. the importance of this report and the negotiations that have taken place is well illustrated by the fact that it took ten years to reach an agreement. this agreement is important not only for pakistan but also for our relationship with other countries in the region. these agreements are positive in the fight against illegal immigration, but the return of any individual in an irregular situation can only take place on the basis of an individual decision and in full respect of the obligations and responsibilities arising from international law, with particular reference to the principle of non-refoulement. pakistan is undoubtedly a major source or transit country for irregular migrants. i regret, however, that it has not yet ratified either the international covenant on civil and political rights or the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. this raises serious doubts about the existence of safe return, particularly as this agreement does not include a strict level of safeguards and mechanisms for the protection of fundamental rights. although far from what would be desirable, it is good to put an end to the risk of member states agreeing to ad hoc returns. it is good that a clear framework for cooperation with pakistan is being established and that human rights monitoring by the european union is being allowed.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the definition of a coherent ecological network at european level, bringing together relevant and representative habitats, many of which are threatened, is an important but not sufficient condition for the preservation of biodiversity. the management of this network should be provided with sufficient resources to allow not only to control threat factors and preserve what exists, but also to recover and requalify what has been degraded. we therefore regret that the creation of the natura 2000 network was not accompanied by the creation of specific financial instruments for the management of the areas included in it, which has compromised and is compromising its effectiveness to a large extent. we also regret the cut in the life programme in the 2010 budget, the same budget that saw military expenditure increase. but effective conservation of biodiversity in its many dimensions also requires its inclusion in a set of relevant sectoral policies and this is where a profound change in the policies pursued by the european union, from agricultural policy to trade policy, is urgently needed. i take advantage of the presence of the commissioner responsible for this dossier. there is much to be done and invested in eu policies for the sake of biodiversity.
mr president, commissioner, the importance of this report reflects the need to intensify efforts on biodiversity. i regret that the eu's goal agreed in gothenburg in 2001 to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been achieved. the consequences of biodiversity loss threaten our future and our well-being and have direct economic repercussions. the correct application of natura 2000 legislation plays an important role in achieving the biodiversity objectives. in this context, i urge the member states to give the highest priority to the implementation of the natura network. it is also important that the commission ensures that biodiversity issues are more integrated into other policies such as agriculture, fisheries, regional policy, tourism and development. the budget for scientific research on the environment and biodiversity in the eighth framework programme needs to be increased to meet the major challenges. for these reasons, it is urgent to set a new 2020 headline target to halt biodiversity loss in the eu and globally.
the united nations has proclaimed 2010 as the international year of biodiversity. unfortunately, the eu will not meet its biodiversity target for 2010. the loss of biodiversity is continuing at an alarming rate. the rate of loss is estimated to accelerate to a value ten times higher by 2050. in the eu, 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 45% of butterflies, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of freshwater fish are threatened with extinction. in its 2008 mid-term review of the implementation of the community biodiversity action plan, the commission noted that 50% of species and up to 80% of habitats of european conservation interest are in a poor conservation status. this loss of biodiversity is unacceptable, not only from an ethical point of view but also from an ecological and economic perspective, since we are depriving future generations of enjoying the benefits of a healthy biodiversity. european policies for the protection of biodiversity need to be coordinated and integrated with other sectoral policies, such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries and natural disaster prevention policies, to ensure maximum protection of biodiversity.
after the disaster caused by the unleashing of the reins of financial speculation, after months of inaction and promises of measures to be imposed on the financial markets, confirmation is coming this week from the european commission. basically, everything will continue as it has been. financial speculation is to continue, its main instruments are to continue, derivatives, short selling, swaps or cds, toxic waste is to continue. the tax havens, which are now silent after all the noise and empty promises about their end, are to continue. all this in contrast to the profound violence with which heavy sacrifices were imposed on the workers and peoples, who were called upon to endure the mismanagement of finance capital. the response to this genuine flight from the european union in the face of the consequences of a crisis which it has helped to create is that in portugal, france, greece, spain, all over europe the people are rising up and fighting against the profound social regression which the european union wants to impose on them.
it was two years ago that the lehman brothers bankruptcy launched the stock market crash and this is the economic and social crisis that our people are still living in today. it is essential to take stock. the european union has been fast, hard and uncompromising in the austerity programmes it has implemented, and slow, very slow or none at all in everything else that could mean fairness in the economy. this parliament will only be adopting the first measures on the supervision of the financial system this week, it will only be nine years before the banks will be applying the rules on own funds, and everything that the citizens were demanding in the first place, the fight against speculative capital, the end of tax havens or a tax on financial transactions, has been postponed. that is why the european day of struggle on 29 september is so necessary and so important throughout europe.
mr president, portugal has been hit once again by a wave of fires throughout the summer, which have devastated forest and agricultural areas, destroyed private homes and infrastructure and constantly threatened people who have lived in fear of being affected by the fires that have been burning incessantly. in august alone, more than 9 000 fires were reported in portugal, the highest number since 2006. given the seriousness of this situation, it is urgent to look not only at the causes but also at the solutions. and by solutions i mean not only the necessary planning and provision of effective means of combating fires, both material and human, but also the need to reforest the various areas and to support the populations affected by the fires. in the autonomous region of madeira, where i come from, several municipalities were affected by the fires. after the natural disaster of last february, the fires of august have further increased the difficulties faced by the people of madeira, who hope to be able to count on the help and solidarity of all in helping to rebuild their lives, especially after the hard trials they have experienced over the past year.
mr president, the recent decision by the council to open the european union market to pakistani textiles and clothing products is a mistake. the textile and clothing sector accounts for 20% of portugal's manufacturing industry, employs 200 000 workers and has 7 000 enterprises. it is a fundamental activity in my country, just as the automobile industry is for italy, germany or france. what will be required of these companies is that they will now compete directly with pakistani companies, which have no social protection costs for workers, no environmental protection costs, no special care is required of them in the use of certain raw materials, where even child labour - unfortunately, as we know - is a reality that happens often. i would like to say, mr president, that european companies are not afraid to compete with any other companies, but what they cannot do is work undermining normal market rules. so this is a protest that i'm leaving here, mr. president. more than a protest, a reflection. and it will be important for the european parliament to debate this matter, which is important for the european textile and clothing industry, at the earliest opportunity.
mr president, according to the european forest fire information system, 70% of the area burned this year in the european union is portuguese, with some 115 000 hectares burned up to 3 september, 13 000 of which in protected areas of great environmental value and with a socioeconomic impact of 385 million euros. we know that the destruction of forests causes serious socioeconomic and environmental damage which should be prevented rather than remedied, particularly because recovery is slow, difficult and expensive. the subject of fires is a recurring theme in the european parliament every year, and if portugal is not an example, it will be another. in this context, i urge the european commission to pay due attention to the successive resolutions that parliament has produced since 1995 on fire protection and firefighting, in particular on 16 september last year, and the mechanism for the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, for which i had the honour of being the shadow rapporteur for the committee on agriculture. these have been implemented only very partially and sometimes in a sectoral and ineffective manner. perhaps this will avoid having to go back to the fires of september 2012.
mr president, in this debate on electronic commerce, i would like to highlight three issues which i think are important to be clarified. the first concerns the need to reconcile consumer rights with copyright. the second concerns the protection of children's rights and the security of electronic commerce. we cannot compromise children's rights and we need to ensure the security of electronic commerce. but the third question is about the broadband objectives set by the commission, namely to make basic broadband available to all citizens of the european union by 2013. now, given that at least 30% of households do not have access to the internet and that 20% of the population of the european union is living in poverty, how does the european commission intend to achieve this broadband target for all by 2013?
in writing. mr president, as mario monti has said, the time when the european union needs the single market the most is when it is least popular. we must look for ways to improve it, to deepen it and, above all, to ensure that it works with transparency, reliability and quality. one of these ways will be electronic commerce. the digital market is a potential generator of jobs and trade, but it needs to overcome legal fragmentation to expand across borders, guaranteeing consumer rights and increasing citizens' trust. and to do that we need clear rules on contracts, on vat tax coordination, on intellectual property, on payment systems and postal distribution at fair and competitive prices or on rapid dispute settlement methods. we need to ensure that article 20 of the services directive is complied with and that there is no discrimination on the basis of the origin of the consumer. the single market act is a great opportunity to set targets. i would like to thank my colleague, pablo arias, for the openness he has shown from the outset to reach a comprehensive and consensual text.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year newspaper headlines and news headlines have been occupied on several occasions by storms, floods, heat waves, fires and other disasters, with profound consequences for people, the territory, the economy and the environment. but this has not been a reality of this past year alone. during the first six years of the european union solidarity fund, the commission received 62 requests for financial support from 21 different countries. of these, about one third fall into the category of major disasters. other disasters have not led to calls for the mobilisation of the fund, although their impacts on the affected populations, the environment and the economy have been considerable and, in many cases, lasting. disasters are deeply wicked. they almost always affect those who have the least means of protecting themselves, whether states or individuals. for this reason, the report states that a community approach to disaster prevention should include, as a central concern, the reduction of disparities between regions and member states in this field, in particular by helping to improve prevention in regions and member states with high risk exposure and lower economic capacity. natural disasters and, for the most part, man-made disasters can and should be prevented. often, disasters are fueled by policies that create an inadequate relationship between man and the physical environment around him. this report recognises that some of the eu's sectoral policies - such as the cap - have contributed to an increase in the exposure of certain regions and their populations to risk, in this case by promoting the abandonment of production and the consequent desertification. it is therefore necessary to correct and reverse them. the promotion of a balanced use of land and of economic and social development in harmony with nature is a decisive factor in disaster prevention. this report is rich in guidelines and recommendations. the debate in the various committees, the discussion with the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteurs on the opinions and the proposals they all made for the final version of the report contributed a great deal to this. i thank all of you for your commitment and interest and for your openness to a discussion which has been profound and enriching. the report also contains a number of recommendations, some of which i would like to highlight very briefly: the creation of a financial framework appropriate to disaster prevention, which would strengthen and articulate the existing financial instruments; the definition of a set of actions to be given priority support to the member states with a view to correcting risk-inducing situations; the strengthening of early warning systems in the member states and the establishment and strengthening of links between the various early warning systems; the creation of a european public agricultural insurance scheme; the creation of the european observatory on drought and desertification; the launching of a specific initiative in the field of forestry and fire prevention. finally, in the context of prevention and in the light of the experience gained in recent disasters, it is imperative to revise the solidarity fund regulation to allow for a more flexible and timely mobilisation of this instrument. mr president, mr commissioner, the problem of disasters has been the subject of several resolutions in this parliament. some of the recommendations contained in this report were already contained in these earlier resolutions. this only reinforces his urgency. follow-up to these recommendations is necessary by putting them into practice. unfortunately, very little has been done in this area, and the commission bears particular responsibility for this delay. i urge the commission to take the broad consensus which the report has gathered during its discussion and vote in committee - and which i hope will be confirmed in its vote in this house - as a clear sign that this resolution is to be taken seriously and that the measures set out in it are to be put into practice.
mr president, commissioner, this report is of great importance, particularly at a time when natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent and with increasing human, socioeconomic and environmental costs. it is therefore important to act quickly and effectively, and above all at the level of prevention, which is the focus of this report. i had the honour of being the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture on this subject and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr joão ferreira, with whom we have worked fruitfully to incorporate part of the agri opinion into this envi report. at the level of agri, our main concerns relate to the impact that floods, droughts and fires have on agricultural and forestry production. we recall how portugal was hit this year by events of this kind, with floods in madeira, with material losses worth 1.3 billion euros, and the summer forest fires, with losses estimated at 385 million euros. in this context, we consider urgent not only the preventive measures outlined in this report, but also, at the intervention level, a compulsory common european system of insurance and mutual funds for agriculture and the reform of the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. i support this report as this is a matter of the utmost importance particularly for the people of countries like portugal, or for regions like madeira and the azores, where i come from, who are often hit by the cataclysm of fires, storms and earthquakes and for whom the possibility of being better protected by a better insurance framework or better aided by a permanent european force and better supported by the greater flexibility of the solidarity fund represents an achievement of the utmost importance for their lives. a set of prevention measures should also be stepped up and given priority support covering areas such as forests, the coastline or agricultural activities in areas affected by depopulation and at risk of natural disasters. i therefore call on the commission to come forward with legislative initiatives in the field of forest protection and the prevention of fires and earthquakes, and to create a european public agricultural insurance scheme accessible to farmers. it is also necessary to review and make more flexible the eu solidarity fund regulation for the benefit of regions facing additional difficulties, such as the outermost regions, as was well demonstrated in the tragedy of madeira.
in writing. the report on 'prevention of natural and man-made disasters', for which i was the shadow rapporteur, reflects a broad consensus on the need for a proactive and comprehensive approach by the various sectors and actors involved in preventing natural disasters and provides for the exchange of good practice and the strengthening of cooperation, in accordance with the principle of solidarity. despite the fact that the responsibility for disaster prevention lies primarily with the member states, the report presents a set of fundamental measures, some of which were already contained in my report, previously approved by parliament, such as the drawing up of risk maps, the strengthening and articulation of financial instruments, the revision of the solidarity fund regulation, the research and development of early warning systems, the creation of the drought and desertification observatory. i would also like to stress the importance of the proposals put forward by the s-d group, which include the presentation of a proposal for a directive to promote the adoption of an eu policy on water scarcity, drought and adaptation to climate change, as well as legislative proposals in the field of forest protection and fire prevention.
mr president, poverty reduction and job creation in the developing countries require a policy of cooperation and development aid guided by genuine solidarity and contributing to the affirmation of the autonomous and sovereign development of these countries. the foreseeable failure to achieve the millennium development goals on schedule makes it all the more urgent to correct shortcomings and inconsistencies at this level. without quality, universal and free education and health systems, without priority for development in the agricultural sector and food sovereignty and security, there will be no poverty reduction. without diversification of the economy, without support for local production, without fair and equitable trade relations incompatible with the imposition of free and unregulated trade there will be no creation of entitled, sustained and lasting employment. i would like to conclude by saying that it is regrettable that the constraints imposed on the least developed countries by external debt and debt service continue to be ignored. his cancellation is a matter of elementary justice.
madam president, in this debate on the security of natural gas supply, i would like to stress that there is already a wide diversification of natural gas in the world, which, incidentally, must be duly acknowledged. but the most important issue for the future is the announced oil crisis, and the european union should therefore actively promote the replacement of refined oil in its fleets, and the best substitute for this is precisely natural gas. but you should not forget that there is also natural gas of non-fossil origin, biomethane, produced from waste, which, incidentally, several european countries are already producing, of which i would highlight sweden and switzerland, and i think even spain. it is a path which should be encouraged in terms of community investment, and in this debate this issue should be very much in our minds.
madam president, this summit should be used to agree joint positions between the european union and china for the cancun climate conference. we must learn from what happened in copenhagen. it is not understandable that the united states has negotiated a minimalist agreement with china, india, brazil and south africa and that the european union's ambitious proposal has been ignored. europe must take back leadership in the fight against climate change and positively influence its strategic partners. china is essential in this fight, not only because it is the world's most populous country and has a booming economy, but also because it is already the largest emitter of greenhouse gases and the largest consumer of coal. by 2020, china aims to reduce co2 emissions and increase renewable energy and forest area. it's a start, but it's not enough. if we're going to save the planet, we need to be more ambitious.
in writing. - olaf has been doing a good job of combating fraud at european level. the increase in the resources and staff available to the commission justifies a budgetary correction which i would be happy to support. i would naturally prefer that this should not be necessary and that the body should be given more resources and more staff as soon as possible so that it can carry out its important task more effectively. a stronger, more independent and more effective olaf is essential for a union that is more transparent and understandable to citizens.
in writing. − this amending budget no 5 to the general budget for 2010 (por 5/2010) covers changes to the staff of olaf (european anti-fraud office), the revision of the traditional own resources estimates and vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant corrections in favour of the united kingdom and their financing, as well as the revision of the financing of the gni reductions in favour of the netherlands and sweden in 2010, resulting in a change in the distribution of their contributions to the eu budget from own resources among the member states. the rules for calculating these own resources are laid down in detail in the applicable legislation. as regards olaf, the commission proposes 20 new permanent ad posts, as this body now has the opportunity to complete the adaptation of its staff with the recruitment of the corresponding number of approved candidates for permanent posts.
in writing. − the european anti-fraud office (olaf) aims to protect the eu's financial interests, fight fraud, corruption and any other irregular activities, including professional misconduct, committed within the european institutions. in view of its important role, it is therefore necessary to provide it with the necessary human and material resources to achieve its objectives. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that e-commerce, as an important sector with a future for economic growth in europe, cannot be left out of the internal market. e-commerce can contribute to the knowledge economy, bring added value and opportunities to european businesses and consumers, and improve the competitiveness of our economy in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, including the development and promotion of new forms of entrepreneurship for small and medium-sized enterprises. last year, one in three consumers in europe bought at least one item online, but only 7% of european consumers dared to do so in another member state. this trend must be reversed and the idea of creating a european trust mark, as advocated by the rapporteur, can help to do this. the need to develop a secure and innovative online payment modality may also contribute to increased trust of european consumers in electronic services from other member states. internet access must of course be extended and democratized in the eu. the commission must ensure that the diversity of consumer protection rules does not constitute an obstacle to the development of intra-european electronic commerce.
in writing. - e-commerce is a constantly evolving reality these days. it's no longer an emerging technology, it's a reality that's becoming more and more widespread. it is an important means of promoting cross-border trade, improving access to more varied, higher quality products, and competitively reducing prices. however, 10 years after the adoption of the e-commerce directive, crossborder e-commerce is not developing as rapidly as domestic e-commerce. technical and legal reasons are the reason behind the failure of 60% of crossborder orders attempted via the internet. i voted in favour of this report because it identifies the problems affecting european e-commerce and also points the way to a genuine online single market for europe. this requires improved implementation of european legislation for the benefit of all european consumers and retailers, increased efforts to achieve a high level of protection for e-commerce users, giving those users confidence to exploit the single market to its full potential, informing them about their rights and how to secure them in the field of e-commerce.
in writing. − the internal market for e-commerce is crucial for europe, notably in achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. however, there are obstacles that need to be overcome. this report proposes measures to this end, among which i find particularly interesting the fight against copyright infringement on the internet and the development of a secure and innovative online payment system that does not impose deterrent fees. this will make it easier to combat piracy, encourage entrepreneurs to market on the internet and, on the other hand, facilitate access to and trust in the internet by users.
in writing. − e-commerce is a market of key importance for the eu in the 21st century, including in pursuing the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. we face the enormous challenge of creating a true online single market for europe, which will enable the eu to compete in the global market. the confidence of european businesses and consumers in the digital environment is reduced due to unnecessary barriers to e-commerce, such as the fragmentation of the european market, consumer insecurity, transaction insecurity, lack of redress mechanisms, etc. it is essential to simplify cross-border rules and to find practical solutions to issues such as copyright, consumer protection, labelling and sector-specific rules, e-waste and recycling rates, online declaration and invoicing. it is essential that existing legislation, such as the services directive, is fully transposed and implemented. at the same time, the commission should complete its assessment of the community legislation applicable to the digital single market and present the initiatives that appear necessary to address the main obstacles. i support the 13 commission recommendations for the development of policies and practices in the field of crossborder e-commerce.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. in a single market with more than 500 million consumers, further e-commerce flexibility and the promotion of consumer trust in transactions together not only allow the economic potential of the digital single market to be exploited, but also encourage the development of new market niches for smes, with consequent potential for job creation. the discrepancies between domestic and cross-border e-commerce prevent consumers, in particular those residing in peripheral or outermost regions, as well as those with reduced mobility, from benefiting from the benefits of e-commerce (access to a wide range of goods and services). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services to consumers, in particular in the area of electronic communications. i would stress that the operation of the 'one-stop shop' is essential for the completion of the digital single market for e-commerce. but equally important are measures such as the standardisation of postal and banking costs in the eu, simplification of vat returns for distance sales or the increase in .eu domain registrations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the completion of the internal market for electronic commerce. the eu 2020 strategy aims to promote a knowledge-based economy. in order to achieve this goal fully, the european commission needs to present measures to increase the speed of broadband services and further rationalise the costs of these services across the union. it is necessary to standardise rules and practices to ensure that distance traders can reach markets other than those limited by their national borders.
in writing. − in its communication of 19 may 2010 on a digital agenda for europe, the commission expressed its desire to make online transactions simpler and more trustworthy. according to the report, one in three europeans have made a purchase online, but only 7% of consumers dare to opt for cross-border transactions and only 12% express confidence in this type of transaction. it is therefore urgent to improve consumer safety (or perception) in relation to these transactions in order to foster the development of a market with very high potential easier, more convenient and, in many cases, lower cost transactions for the consumer. for a true electronic single market, it is essential that consumers feel safe when transacting online and that businesses realise the immense potential of online commerce to increase online supply and remove barriers across borders.
in writing. − the free movement of goods in europe is seriously hampered by fragmented sets of national rules. figures on the state of e-commerce in the eu show that in 2009 one in three consumers in europe bought at least one item online, but only 7% of european consumers would dare to do so in another member state. non-public eu investigations into e-commerce practices have shown that 60% of consumers' attempts to buy cross-border items in the eu fail, with the transaction or shipment being denied by the seller, although the buyer could save at least 10% by making an electronic purchase abroad (even including shipping costs) in half of the 11,000 cases investigated. i therefore stress the need for a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework capable of overcoming border barriers, enhancing value added and regulating the risks of an activity in continuous evolution and with a high margin of progression. this requires constant attention and monitoring, with priority given to the reliability of communications and transactions. the consolidation of e-commerce requires work on security and trust for businesses and consumers, particularly in the area of payments and delivery and return services.
in writing. - the report on electronic commerce contains some contradictions and an excessive insistence on the creation of the internal market. we recognize the importance of electronic commerce, but there is much to be done to prevent it from becoming a vehicle for new and serious problems. as we have stressed in the debate, there are many issues that need to be clarified, such as the protection of copyright, the protection of children's rights, consumer rights and safety. the report does make a number of suggestions to increase the confidence of all operators in the e-commerce market, but not all of them are the most appropriate or even take due account of all the interests and rights involved in a process which can prove to be very complex. it is true that the e-commerce supply chain needs to be more transparent, so that the consumer always knows the identity of the supplier, as well as its trade name, geographical address, contact details and tax number. but the rights of children and young people and people with various dependencies must always be safeguarded.
in writing. − the single market has always been one of the eu's major objectives. in the present day, cross-border e-commerce can make a very important contribution to the further development of the single market. internally, online shopping is already widely embraced by consumers. however, this is not the case in electronic commerce between the various member states, mainly because of the lack of mutual trust between seller and buyer. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. hence my vote.
in writing. - i abstained on this report despite the fact that i consider it important to promote electronic commerce and the necessary extension of internet networks and services in good conditions to the whole population, even in the most isolated areas. i also agree that it is essential to combat the discrimination faced by many citizens who wish to make online purchases, in particular on the basis of the member state in which they are located or the e-mail address they use to make the transaction. i agree with many of the suggestions made in this report. but i do not regret that the services directive has not yet been fully transposed in some member states, i do not support the commission's policy for the postal services sector, nor do i welcome the eu 2020 strategy. these underlying choices are largely responsible for the difficult social situation the eu is facing today. the construction of future models in the communications sector and even in electronic commerce will certainly be better framed in a perspective more centred on people and their rights and not just subordinated to commercial interests.
in writing. − it is essential to ensure safety in the civil aviation sector in europe and to reduce the number of accidents and incidents through investigative and prevention procedures. i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that it promotes an environment conducive to spontaneous reporting of occurrences, by calling for the efficiency, speed and quality of european civil aviation safety investigations. i agree that investigations should be carried out by a national authority or other authorities responsible for safety investigations. i also believe that it is important to set up a european network of authorities to improve the quality of research methods and the training of researchers. another aspect which i consider important is the establishment of standards on the timely provision of information on persons and dangerous goods on board in the event of an accident, and the improvement of assistance to victims and their families.
in writing. − the intensification of air traffic has led to an increase in the risk of air accidents. despite the improvements that have been introduced in the field of safety, there are still gaps in the current accident investigation system. the safety system in this area is essentially based on feedback and lessons learned from accidents and incidents that have occurred, and it is important to strengthen coordination between the authorities responsible for safety investigations, including through the establishment of a european network, which should ensure full independence and a high level of efficiency, diligence and quality in such investigations, in order to identify any safety deficiencies and take corrective action. it is important to ensure effective prevention and a high level of safety in the civil aviation sector in europe and to spare no effort to reduce the number of accidents and incidents in order to ensure citizens' confidence in air transport. in addition to safety investigations, particular attention should also be paid to the issue of strengthening assistance to victims of air accidents and their families, whereby all european airlines should have a crisis and assistance plan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on the investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation, because it introduces new rules which will make it possible to strengthen accident prevention and the transparency and speed of accident investigations.
in writing. − given that civil aviation has experienced a significant increase in the number of flights and passengers over the years, albeit associated with a decrease in air accidents and incidents, safety must remain a key concern today and always. i also know that the directive regulating the investigation of air accidents dates from 1994 and that much has changed in civil aviation since then, so i think it is urgent to review this regulation. i agree with the rapporteur when she speaks of the need for greater coordination and integration in the investigation of air accidents. in a space of increasing integration, and given that the consequences of an air crash do not affect only one state, it makes no sense for the national authorities to remain in a situation of almost backwardness in aviation. in this context, it seems to me possible to give a new role to the european aviation safety agency (easa). finally, i believe that this is one of the areas where it is imperative for the european union to act in a coordinated and integrated manner in order to ensure the safety of all passengers in european airspace.
in writing. - air transport is now undeniably playing a decisive role in the mobility of people and the dynamics of the world economy. its importance and impact will surely continue to grow in a society increasingly determined by globalisation and the priority given to the commercialisation of time and space. in the current context of global crisis and strong pressure to reduce costs and expenditure, an efficient regulatory and supervisory framework is required, taking into account the interests of users. safety is the main concern of users and has a strong impact on the pricing of travel. i would therefore stress the contribution of this report to the quality and independence of investigations into accidents and incidents in civil aviation, by harmonising the level of investigation capabilities of the member states and at the same time ensuring the adaptation and updating of european legislation in this area, in the face of developments in the sector and the emergence of new actors such as the european aviation safety agency. i would like to stress, however, that priority must be given to accident prevention and that this is the direction in which research should be directed as a tool for identifying problems and providing solutions.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. we appreciate the active role of the member states, particularly through their respective authorities responsible for investigations, which will form part of the european network of national authorities for this area. this network is presented with specific objectives: to make suggestions to the competent national authorities, to share information on research methods, to coordinate and organise training for researchers in each member state, to develop common research methodologies in the eu, and to develop and manage a framework for sharing resources. we will be following the future of this structure, because we believe that its operation should remain within the strict framework of the objectives set out above, and within the framework of the scheme of participation of the member states, through the national authorities responsible, now defined.
in writing. - currently, the european legislation governing aviation accident investigation is from 1994. the commission has therefore decided to amend the proposal to take account of the new situation in the sector. despite the great advances in aviation safety in recent years, the constant increase in air traffic means an increased risk of accidents. it is therefore necessary to focus not only on safety but also on prevention and to require from airlines, particularly low-cost airlines, that profitability levels must not be achieved at the expense of safety. it is also very important that the need to support the victims and their families is not given priority. hence my vote.
in writing. - air traffic has increased considerably since the european directive governing the investigation of aviation accidents in 1994. although there have been significant improvements in safety, these developments have naturally led to an increased likelihood of accidents, and have been accompanied by increased technological complexity and the emergence of new actors such as the european aviation safety agency. i think it is essential that air accidents be investigated independently and transparently in order to fill in the gaps and protect passengers. the promotion of a community-wide network of national authorities responsible for research can also help to reduce imbalances in research capacities between the various member states. assistance to victims and their families should be a priority for each country, so it is essential to ensure that all airlines established in each territory have assistance plans. i am pleased with the work of the rapporteur from the committee on transport and with the agreement reached with the european council at the end of june, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this regulation contributes to the response to the problem of gas supply crises in europe. it is crucial to define rules that ensure and improve the management of gas supply in europe. for better management of community emergency situations, i consider it essential to ensure greater capacity for interconnection between member states and greater coordination of action. i also believe in the importance of the regulation in setting up preventive and emergency plans at member state and commission level. the emergency response should also allow for greater flexibility to deal with crises with different characteristics in terms of duration or intensity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on measures to ensure the security of gas supply, because i believe that more coordinated action at european level is needed to allow for better management of possible future crises.
in writing. - gas currently accounts for more than a quarter of the energy supplied to the european union and more than half of this comes from suppliers outside the eu. by 2020, more than 80% of the gas used will be imported and some states are already 100% dependent on imported gas. this raises serious questions of security of supply, as the recent crisis has shown. naturally, this situation requires european action to ensure that there is sufficient infrastructure and capacity to avoid and resolve unexpected gas supply problems. in addition, it is urgent to look at the problems posed by the security of gas supply in europe and the risks associated with transit. the current proposal is based on three fundamental points, which is why i am voting in favour of it: (i) direct applicability of the new community legislation; (ii) the establishment of preventive action plans and emergency plans in the event of a supply disruption; and (iii) the strengthening of the role of the european commission in coordinating emergency measures and declaring an emergency at community or regional level, imposing the principle of solidarity between member states.
in writing. − this regulation on the security of gas supply, which repeals directive 2004/67/ec, is a legislative document that provides a concrete response to a real problem facing the union. this was evident during the gas crisis between russia and ukraine last winter, when millions of european citizens and our own economy were severely affected. the guarantees of energy supply, particularly gas, are fundamental to economic and social well-being and stability. in the face of the crises we have seen in europe, which usually occur at times when people are most in need of coping with extreme cold temperatures, the new european legislation ensures a coordinated response capacity at european level, both in terms of the service provided to consumers and in terms of the reaction to external supply cuts. the implementation of this regulation will thus contribute to significantly reducing the eu's vulnerability to external disruptions to energy supply and will also strengthen the leading role of european gas companies in the world and the geopolitical positioning of the union as a strategic global player. i would also like to stress the positive aspects of the imposition of preventive action plans.
in writing. − we recognise the concerns expressed about the security of gas supply, in which member states should play an active role, in particular through their respective competent authorities, but we consider the question raised about gas from russia to be exaggerated. if they fear problems, the solution is negotiation and diversification of sources of supply and production and not to use this pretext to deepen european integration, concentration and centralisation of decisions and infrastructure projects supporting the integration of the internal gas market. as i said in the debate, the most important issue for the future is the announced oil crisis, and the european union should therefore actively promote the replacement of refined oil in its fleets, and the best substitute is precisely natural gas. and we should not forget that there is also natural gas of non-fossil origin, biomethane, produced from waste, which, incidentally, several european countries are producing, of which i would like to mention sweden, switzerland and spain. it is a path that should be encouraged in terms of community investment.
in writing. − the security of gas supply in the european union must ensure that all citizens have access to energy for their basic needs, such as cooking and heating, and to essential public services such as hospitals and schools. it must also ensure that jobs are preserved. these must be the priorities and public policies are needed to implement them. the security of the population cannot be left to the market and to struggles for resources. prevention is essential here, as is solidarity between member states in times of energy crisis or disaster. energy security highlights the importance of decentralisation, the variety and proximity of generation processes and the integration of energy networks. micro-generation is therefore seen as the best guarantee of security of energy supply for the needs of citizens.
in writing. - gas is an increasingly important energy source in the eu landscape. the past has shown how important security of supply is, given that the eu is heavily dependent on gas from eastern europe, particularly russia. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. achieving this objective requires a common and effective approach to the security of supply of this fuel, which must be based on rules of transparency, solidarity and policies compatible with the functioning of the internal market. hence my vote.
in writing. - it is well known that pakistan is the country of origin of many illegal immigrants. there is therefore every advantage in establishing quick and effective means of contact with your authorities. i am not unaware of the reservations that the parliamentary left has about the agreement, but i believe that it confuses illegal immigration with the right to asylum and good personal feelings with good public policy. i agree with the wording of the resolution. this agreement between the union and pakistan does not only concern what is known as readmission. it is, as you can see, a bilateral agreement aimed at the extradition or, if you like, the expulsion of illegal immigrants from their respective territories.
in writing. − the aim of the agreement is to increase cooperation between the administrations of the eu member states and pakistan in order to speed up the readmission process. to this end, the agreement lays down the obligation to readmit nationals of the country concerned and, under certain conditions, third-country nationals and stateless persons on a basis of full reciprocity, as well as the necessary technical provisions on the readmission procedure. pakistan is a major source or transit country for migrants who do not, or no longer, fulfil the conditions in force for entry, presence or residence in the territory of an eu member state. despite ten years of negotiations, i welcome the adoption of this agreement, which is preferable to previous ad hoc agreements on this matter and will have positive effects not only for the eu-pakistan relationship but for the whole region.
in writing. - our vote against signing the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation is justified, from the outset, by the fact that it creates a situation of legal uncertainty. but the most substantial reason is our criticism of the immigration policy of the european union. the legal complexity does not guarantee respect for the rights of immigrants, criminalizing them, as has been denounced by many organizations, forcing pakistan to take in its own nationals in an illegal situation and seeking to hold pakistan accountable for accepting afghans who have been in transit through that country. secondly, this agreement is yet another flagrant example of the hypocrisy that presides over eu decisions, which wants to wash its hands of its responsibility for the degradation of the situation of both the afghans after the us invasion and the maintenance of the occupation war by nato and the pakistanis in the now widened war on pakistan. the eu considers people fleeing war, hunger and poverty to be illegal (even terrorists) and should be returned to their countries of origin in search of decent living conditions for themselves and their families. the eu considers illegal and must expel immigrants who have fled the crimes of nato, who have been lured into mafia networks, who have been exploited as cheap labour and in conditions of work that are almost slave-like. this is an unacceptable position.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the eu-pakistan readmission agreement will allow people to be sent to a country which has not signed the 1951 geneva convention, which does not respect human rights and whose internal situation does not offer the necessary security for people to return. the eu will also be failing to respect the right to asylum if it sends back to pakistan citizens of other countries (e.g. afghanistan) who have arrived in the eu from pakistan, which could lead to the same person being subject to a series of deportations from one country to another that the eu will not control. in addition, this readmission agreement contains no safeguards or control mechanisms, is full of legal loopholes and ambiguities, and does not adequately respect the protection of personal data.
in writing. − the fight against illegal immigration has always been a priority for the eu. the agreement now approved has been negotiated with pakistan for many years and it seems to me to be a balanced document, and it is intended to extradite only citizens who are illegally present in eu territory. it is not therefore citizens who are seeking asylum or who are seeking to settle in the eu and who seek the authorities of the host country to regularise their situation. we cannot confuse illegal immigrants with citizens who want to settle legally in the eu. it is nevertheless very important to continue to press pakistan to ratify the 1966 international covenant on civil and political rights and the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the eu-pakistan readmission agreement will allow people to be sent to a country which has not signed the 1951 geneva convention, which does not respect human rights and whose internal situation does not offer the necessary security for people to return. the eu will also be failing to respect the right to asylum if it sends back to pakistan citizens of other countries (e.g. afghanistan) who have arrived in the eu from pakistan, which could lead to the same person being subject to a series of deportations from one country to another that the eu will not control. in addition, this readmission agreement contains no safeguards or control mechanisms, is full of legal loopholes and ambiguities, and does not adequately respect the protection of personal data. the recent floods in that country constitute an additional reason for concern about the fate of the returnees. just two weeks ago, the european parliament expressed its concern about the humanitarian situation in pakistan as a result of this disaster. the right wing's hypocrisy is evident if this inadmissible readmission agreement is now approved. it won't be with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on trade and economic relations with turkey. the full implementation of the eu-turkey customs union, which has been in place since 1996, requires the removal of the remaining bureaucratic obstacles, tariff and non-tariff barriers. i also consider it important that turkey should put women's employment at the centre of its economic and social policies, given the low participation of women in the labour market.
in writing. - the european union and turkey have been important trading partners for several years. this mutually beneficial partnership has been hampered by turkish attempts to restrict access to its market for european products by means of administrative and bureaucratic constraints. i hope that these barriers will be removed, that turkey will fight decisively against the counterfeiting of european products and defend the legitimate rights of creators to the proceeds of their inventive processes, and that trade and economic relations between the union and turkey will grow and strengthen. as i have already said, whatever the future shape of eu-turkey relations, i hope that they will be closer and continue along the path of dialogue and effective cooperation and that turkey will continue along the path it has embarked on towards freedom and democracy of a western origin.
in writing. - in 1963 turkey and the eec concluded an association agreement, which provided for the establishment of a customs union by 1996. this act allowed for the deepening of economic relations through the creation of the au. the products covered by the ua include all industrial products and processed agricultural products. in 2009, turkey's exports to the eu amounted to eur 33.6 billion and imports from the eu to eur 40.4 billion. turkey has also become the 17th largest economy in the world according to world bank statistics, and the sixth largest economy in europe. turkey ranked 20th as a recipient of foreign direct investment (fdi). the au created in 1996 does not cover agricultural products and areas such as services and public procurement. as regards public contracts, turkey continues to grant a price advantage of 15% to turkish tenderers. turkey is urged to simplify procedures and bureaucracy and to remove the remaining tariff and non-tariff barriers to the elimination of all unnecessary obstacles to trade between the eu and turkey.
in writing. - this report seeks to consolidate an economic and commercial relationship with turkey which is in fact aimed at subjugating it to eu interests. the references are many and explicit: to remove the remaining tariff and non-tariff barriers between the eu and turkey, to maintain open trade and investment regimes, to strengthen turkey's capacity to resist internal protectionist temptations, to extend the customs union to agricultural products, services and public procurement. the development of these economic and trade relations only benefits the large monopolies in the eu and turkey, to the clear detriment of workers whose rights are being stripped away to increase competitiveness, of small and mediumsized enterprises and of small and mediumsized farmers, who face rising production costs and falling production prices and incomes. the pressure on turkey to respect the agreements reached, which imply the normalisation of relations with all eu countries, including cyprus, is positive. it is necessary that economic and trade relations should not override the interests of the peoples and that any progress in relations with turkey should be subject to the end of the turkish occupation of the northern part of cyprus.
in writing. - this report is a veritable ode to the customs union and unconditional free trade, to free trade agreements between turkey and third countries, to the wto agreements and to the implementation of the nabucco project. despite some improvements in the amendments tabled by the left, particularly on the socioeconomic situation, youth and women's unemployment and trade union rights, and a positive reference to turkey's obligations under the additional protocol to the association agreement, we cannot support a report whose structure is incompatible with our view. they want to make turkey the 28th free market state without giving it full rights and duties as a member state of the european union. we are opposed to this new strategy of postponement.
in writing. - it is well known that turkey is one of the eu's main trading partners. this relationship is old, dating back to 1963, and was deepened with the establishment of a customs union in 1993, as provided for in the initial agreement. nevertheless, there are still many bureaucratic obstacles which have prevented trade and economic relations from being even more profitable for both sides. turkey must therefore make an additional effort to combat such obstacles to the common good.
in writing. - this report is a veritable ode to the customs union and unconditional free trade, to free trade agreements between turkey and third countries, to the wto agreements and to the implementation of the nabucco project. despite some improvements with the amendments tabled by the left, particularly on the socioeconomic situation, youth and women's unemployment and trade union rights, as well as a positive reference to turkey's obligations under the additional protocol to the association agreement, we cannot support a report whose structure is incompatible with our view. they want to make turkey the 28th free market state without giving it full rights and duties as a member state of the european union. we are opposed to this new strategy of postponement.
in writing. - this report is a veritable ode to the customs union and unconditional free trade, to free trade agreements between turkey and third countries, to the wto agreements and to the implementation of the nabucco project. despite some improvements in the amendments tabled by the left, particularly on the socioeconomic situation, youth and women's unemployment and trade union rights, and a positive reference to turkey's obligations under the additional protocol to the association agreement, we cannot support a report whose structure is incompatible with our view. they want to make turkey the 28th free market state without giving it full rights and duties as a member state of the european union. we are opposed to this new strategy of postponement.
in writing. - declaration of vote the failures to combat biodiversity that have been observed require an urgent european response. i believe that this resolution is a contribution to that end. i therefore welcome the clear position that halting biodiversity loss is the absolute minimum level of ambition to be achieved by 2020. this requires a number of measures, some of which are set out in the resolution, and of which i would stress increased crossborder cooperation and the enhancement of biodiversity, particularly from an environmental and economic point of view. in this context, i would stress, on the one hand, the importance of biodiversity and ecosystem resilience for climate change mitigation and adaptation. i also think it is important that this resolution recognises that sustainable economic development and nature conservation should not be inseparable and that the development of green infrastructure also has the potential to create jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of eu legislation on the protection of biodiversity, because ambitious measures are needed to halt biodiversity loss and restore ecosystems, including through a cross-cutting approach to the various sectoral eu policies, which recognises biodiversity as a key element in climate change mitigation and adaptation.
in writing. - to quote the rapporteur, the loss of biodiversity threatens our food supply, our leisure and tourism opportunities, our ability to cope with climate change and our sources of wood, medicine and energy. i therefore agree with the need for the eu as a whole, and with particular attention to all areas covered by community policies, to find a sustainable strategy for the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems. i believe that this is particularly relevant in the area of agriculture and fisheries, which is why i am following the reforms being prepared in the cfp and the cap with particular attention, since the proper and sustainable preservation of biodiversity, while essential and desirable, cannot be a brake on the sustainability and development of agricultural and fisheries activities.
in writing. the european union is committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. unfortunately, the eu will not meet its biodiversity target for 2010. the loss of biodiversity is continuing at an alarming rate. the rate of loss is estimated to accelerate to a value ten times higher by 2050. in the eu, 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 45% of butterflies, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of freshwater fish are threatened with extinction. in its 2008 mid-term review of the implementation of the community biodiversity action plan, the commission noted that 50% of species and up to 80% of habitats of european conservation interest are in a poor conservation status. this loss of biodiversity is unacceptable, not only from an ethical point of view but also from an ecological and economic perspective, since we are depriving future generations of enjoying the benefits of a healthy biodiversity. european policies for the protection of biodiversity need to be coordinated and integrated with other sectoral policies, such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries and natural disaster prevention policies, to ensure maximum protection of biodiversity.
in writing. − this report is clear in calling attention to important issues such as: incomplete implementation of legislation, incomplete and weak integration into sectoral policies, insufficient scientific knowledge and knowledge gaps, lack of political will, insufficient funding, lack of effective instruments geared to tackling specific problems such as invasive alien species. in general, we follow the concerns and demands expressed in the report. we welcome the inclusion of the proposals we made in the debate in the environment committee on several of its chapters, in particular those on funding and the inclusion of biodiversity in the relevant sectoral policies. but we cannot but point out and strongly reject the inclusion in the report, albeit incidental and merely as a suggestion for reflection, of the reference to possible innovative systems for payment for ecosystem services. this is an unacceptable commodification of nature. the loss of biodiversity is one of the consequences of a system - capitalism - based on the exploitation of nature and its resources (beyond their natural regenerative capacity) and their commodification. it will not be possible to find a just and effective solution to this or other environmental problems within the framework of this system.
in writing. - the rapid rate of man-made biodiversity loss is worrying. biodiversity should be seen as the most reliable barometer of the state of the environment. so, faced with alarming figures of biodiversity loss in the eu, with 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 45% of butterflies, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of freshwater fish threatened with extinction, i consider the legislation now in place to protect biodiversity, and even to strengthen it, to be fundamental and essential. hence my vote.
in writing. − i warmly welcome this report on the application of eu legislation on the protection of biodiversity, which derives from and underlines the importance we all recognise of it in the environmental, economic and social spheres and in sectors as diverse as agriculture, fisheries and tourism. i would like to stress here today another aspect which, although not being omitted in the course of the debate, has not been sufficiently emphasized. i am talking about the intrinsic value of biodiversity and the moral duty we have to protect and defend it. it is man who, having the greatest power over biodiversity, has the greatest responsibility to preserve it, to pass on to future generations this heritage he has received, to enjoy and care for. the european union is thus doing its part by legislating for the conservation of biodiversity, and this certainly deserves my support.
in writing. − the obligation to protect the biodiversity of our resources is an ethical obligation, given the growing threat to ecosystems and the risk of irreversible damage to the environment. concerns about the preservation of biodiversity also have a social and economic basis, however, as sustainable development is linked to economic stability. it is therefore essential to integrate this objective of protecting biodiversity into the various areas of action at european level, in particular in the context of the fight against climate change, the eu 2020 strategy and the objective of job creation, by providing the necessary funding for these. i cannot fail to mention the essential role of fisheries in a country like portugal, and i therefore believe that the common fisheries policy should facilitate compliance with the legislation applicable to biodiversity with a view to the sustainability of this sector. in other areas of activity, such as agriculture, forestry, tourism, research and innovation, which are central to the outermost regions, their employment potential also requires the development of a sustainable economy and ecological concerns, with policies for resource efficiency and sustainable consumption and production.
in writing. - we have seen the devastating power of natural disasters with increasing frequency. this resolution, which i voted for, sets out a number of important actions. among these, i would highlight cooperation between member states in sharing practical knowledge of disaster management, with special emphasis on prevention. national research and development institutions should also have coordination mechanisms at this level. i am also pleased that the natural characteristics and constraints of isolated, mountainous, sparsely populated and depopulated regions, as well as of the peripheral and outermost regions, have been recognised. in fact, these regions should be given special attention.
in writing. − in recent decades, the eu has seen a sharp increase in the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters. according to un data, this vulnerability tends to increase due to, for example, climate change, intensive land use, industrial/urban development. there are already a number of community instruments designed to cover various aspects of prevention. however, they have proved insufficient, adding that the level of implementation is sometimes not the most desirable, which calls into question the implementation of a genuine strategic approach of the union to disaster prevention. although the primary responsibility for protecting the population and preventing disasters lies with the member states, these phenomena do not respect national borders and in most cases have a transnational dimension. as such, it is essential to promote an effective approach at european level based on solidarity. i have no doubt that a proactive approach will produce more effective and less costly results than a strategy of catastrophe response alone. special attention should be paid to the issue of increased forced migration from areas affected by environmental degradation, where such refugees should be provided with protection and resettlement assistance.
in writing. - it is now clear that natural disasters in europe are occurring at a more frequent rate and that this requires concerted prevention, response and solutions at union level. i believe that this consultation must assume the complementarity between the levels of response to these scourges. i also think it is important that the implementation of the solidarity fund be evaluated in this context and that the way in which it is mobilised be revised so that it becomes more flexible and adapted to the characteristics and differences of the regions for which it is intended.
in writing. − eu member states have been hit by a significant number of natural disasters, some of them of major proportions. it should be noted that the eu solidarity fund, in its first six years of operation, received 62 requests for financial support from 21 different countries. these natural disasters compromise ecosystems and biodiversity, affect sustainable development and threaten social cohesion. rural abandonment and desertification are among the causes of these disasters and are simultaneously aggravated by them. climate change will further exacerbate natural disasters. the solution is prevention and support for the most vulnerable regions. this prevention must be based on a logic of cooperation and coordination at european level and on a strengthening of european solidarity. i therefore advocate an appropriate financial framework for disaster prevention. this framework should strengthen and give priority to the articulation of existing instruments such as cohesion policy, rural development policy, regional policy, the solidarity fund, the seventh framework programme and the life+ programmes. the next financial perspective should clearly reflect this objective. i also support the need to revise the solidarity fund regulation, adapting the eligibility criteria to the characteristics of each region and disaster.
in writing. - the adoption of this report is of particular importance in a year in which several european countries have been struck by disasters with profound impacts on people, the territory, the economy and the environment. this has contributed to a better public awareness of the importance of disaster prevention and to a collective awareness of the importance of strengthening it. we have taken important elements for this report from recent experience of these disasters, from the analysis of their causes and consequences. we have tried to include in the report a broad set of guidelines and recommendations which could be applied to various types of disasters. the european commission and the council must now, by accepting the indisputable sign of the broad consensus which the report has created during its discussion and vote, put into practice the measures proposed here.
in writing. − our countries have been struck by disasters with devastating effects on the lives of communities and ecosystems. the scale of such disasters reflects both the increasing frequency of extreme weather events and human error in balanced spatial planning. the report is moving in the right direction in emphasizing the crucial importance of community prevention. it also stresses the need for cooperation and coordination between the member states of the union. however, it is also important to strengthen the union's specific response capacity, in particular by focusing on prevention and combating instruments at european level that are linked to those of the member states and to local and community prevention strategies. no scale of response should be overlooked and they are complementary if we are to achieve the best results with the most intelligent use of resources.
in writing. − the prevention of natural and man-made disasters must be one of the eu's priorities, and it is certainly not an easy task. it has been argued that intensive land use, disorderly industrial and urban growth, rural neglect, desertification, the intensification of extreme weather events, among others, have been responsible for making member states more vulnerable to disasters, both natural and man-made. it is therefore important that we all join forces to combat the factors mentioned above, so that in the future such disasters, which cause a great deal of material damage but are also responsible for the irreparable loss of life, will not be repeated so often.
in writing. − our countries have been struck by disasters with devastating effects on the lives of communities and ecosystems. the scale of such disasters reflects both the increasing frequency of extreme weather events and human error in balanced spatial planning. the report is moving in the right direction in emphasizing the crucial importance of community prevention. it also stresses the need for cooperation and coordination between the member states of the union. however, it is also important to strengthen the union's specific response capacity, in particular by focusing on prevention and combating instruments at european level that are linked to those of the member states and to local and community prevention strategies. no scale of response should be overlooked and they are complementary if we are to achieve the best results with the most intelligent use of resources.
in writing. − our countries have been struck by disasters with devastating effects on the lives of communities and ecosystems. the scale of such disasters reflects both the increasing frequency of extreme weather events and human error in balanced spatial planning. the report is moving in the right direction in emphasizing the crucial importance of community prevention. it also stresses the need for cooperation and coordination between the member states of the union. however, it is also important to strengthen the union's specific response capacity, in particular by focusing on prevention and combating instruments at european level that are linked to those of the member states and to local and community prevention strategies. no scale of response should be overlooked and they are complementary if we are to achieve the best results with the most intelligent use of resources.
in writing. - while it is true that the main responsibilities in terms of preventing and managing natural disasters fall to each member state, i believe that the european institutions should promote cooperation between them by systematising and optimising the resources available and by increasing the complementarity of actions, both at community and regional level. this strategy should aim at reducing disparities between regions in terms of their capacity to protect their populations and invest in research, prevention, anticipation and resolution of these phenomena, with a particular focus on the outermost regions. the natural constraints of these regions, which often face a combination of risks, as is the case in madeira, should allow the use of the different financial instruments of cohesion policy in the event of a disaster, as well as the flexibility of their operating conditions. it seems clear to me that the solidarity fund should be revised in the direction of more rapid mobilisation and less rigid eligibility criteria. this report, which i supported, reflects these concerns. i would like to remember the victims of the very serious natural disaster that occurred in madeira in february 2010, as well as their families, and reiterate the great urgency of activating the solidarity fund for the reconstruction of madeira.
in writing. - to respond to the scourge of poverty in developing countries, these countries need to have an appropriate economic environment. the report stresses the importance of reducing red tape, encouraging the promotion of savings and access to credit and strengthening regional integration. it also refers to the need to promote the involvement of civil society organisations in the formulation and monitoring of public policies, by consolidating the role of relevant representative organisations and by strengthening the legal and social status of women. i also believe that, as mentioned in the report, employment policy should include investment in 'green jobs' and in green industry (renewable energy and energy efficiency). in addition, as regards the challenges facing donor countries, the report stresses the simplification of eu aid procedures and innovative sources of funding, which i consider crucial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a strengthening of the legal and social status of women, with the aim of preventing discrimination and taking advantage of the potential of women for economic and social development in developing countries. promoting gender equality in these countries is also an investment in ensuring better economic success. it is equally important to ensure that basic education and public health continue to form the basis of development policies. the current economic crisis cannot justify any reduction in international aid to these sectors.
in writing. - it is impossible to address this issue without recalling the leading role of the european union in helping developing countries. despite the efforts made, it must be recognized that much remains to be done in this area and that poverty and unemployment continue to plague these countries in a glaring manner. after the independence of many of these, their leaders employed anti-european rhetoric. today, of course, that argument is largely exhausted. unfortunately, the information we receive about the levels of corruption and respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens in developing countries leaves much to be desired. the union is right to maintain aid levels and to push for the adoption of best practices. he must not slacken his demands, much less compromise with those who prosper from the misery of others.
in writing. - the fight against poverty and social exclusion necessarily requires a clear commitment to the integral development of the human person and to the moralization of the economy and power relations. a broader definition of poverty including deprivation, social exclusion and non-participation should be promoted as proposed in the united nations report entitled 'rethinking poverty - world social situation report 2010. governments in developing countries must diversify their economies, pursue sustainable development, facilitate the emergence of enterprises, especially smes, and combat bureaucracy and corruption. donors and partner countries should ensure that agriculture, and in particular small farms and small and medium-sized organic agro-industries, is high on the development agenda. they should focus on vocational education and training, the fight against child labour, and the achievement of satisfactory labour standards and high levels of comprehensive social protection coverage. child labour is an obstacle to the achievement of universal primary education and poverty reduction. inter-agency coordination and the alignment of education aid with child labour policy should therefore be strengthened. i also advocate the promotion of more efforts to ensure gender equality.
in writing. the final version of this report has positive and negative points, which contradict each other. it starts badly when it subordinates sound and sustainable economic growth to the needs of business. it must be people who are the reason for economic growth. it is the workers who create wealth and economic growth and it is in relation to them and the satisfaction of social needs that production should be organised, not in relation to profit. the organization of material production for profit rather than for the needs of people generates poverty and unemployment, which this report says it is aiming to combat. we also identified positive elements, particularly as regards the review of privatisation policies such as water, basic sanitation and public services, the defence of public services and the need to put an end to tax havens. we believe that to achieve the proposed objective it would be necessary to reorganise economic and trade relations by immediately breaking with neoliberalism, with the trade liberalization agreements established at the wto level and with the free trade agreements already established or under negotiation, to end the external debt of the developing countries and the debt service, to end the structural adjustment policies imposed by the international financial institutions.
in writing. - the eu is a space of solidarity and the concern to reduce poverty and create jobs in developing countries is clear. we all know that this objective can only be achieved by solid and sustainable growth in an environment of stability. developing countries must therefore diversify their economies by developing the manufacturing sector and by reducing red tape so that smes can become the main engines of job creation and growth. by successfully transmitting these values to developing countries, the eu will play a decisive role in reducing poverty and creating jobs in these countries. hence my vote.
in writing. - the subject of this report is very topical and urgent, as well as important and strategic. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. it is important and strategic because european investment in poverty reduction and job creation in developing countries makes a decisive contribution to promoting social peace in social terms, to stimulating trade in economic terms and to giving substance to the values we believe in in moral terms. my approval of this report as it stands does not, however, undermine the need i advocate for the same wish to be implemented in the european area, not only for the reasons i have already mentioned for developing countries, but also for the logic and feeling of a stronger duty of solidarity and also in the conviction that we europeans cannot help others if we are not well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, among other things, it puts an emphasis on the fight against child labour, calls on the eu to recognise the contribution of the social economy, invites developing countries to extend land ownership to the poor and those without any property, for example by granting title to the land they live on to squatters in the poorest neighbourhoods, defends the freedom of trade union association and the right to collective bargaining, combats different forms of discrimination and calls for a review of privatisation policies, in particular in relation to public services such as water, basic sanitation and services of general interest, and a re-emphasis of the social role of the states in development governance, including the role of public enterprises as employers and providers of social services.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the fact that there is a growing tendency for the safety profile of new medicines to become fully known only after they have entered the market implies the need for a more effective pharmacovigilance system than has hitherto been the case. we are facing a typical risk management problem, but at the macro and supranational level, we are bringing it closer to the citizens now. over the past few decades, new medicines have played a key role in public health and healthcare advances. adverse drug reactions remain, however, the fifth leading cause of hospital death. the proposals put forward strengthen the contribution of medicines to modern public health through a community pharmacovigilance system, improving coordination and transparency. they are aimed at monitoring, early detection, reporting and evaluation of adverse reactions. new medicines will have a graphic symbol that mentions that they are still under scrutiny. user participation in monitoring is encouraged, national effectiveness studies are encouraged, new awareness of environmental consequences is created and the community monitoring institutions, the prac, are improved. that is why i welcome the proposals, mr president. i congratulate the rapporteur and the commission for the spirit of cooperation, as well as the spanish presidency. i therefore welcome the proposals contained in this legislative package and welcome the final document which will be voted on tomorrow.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have been involved in this process. we know that adverse drug reactions are the fifth leading cause of hospital death - it's never too late to say that - and a strong and transparent drug surveillance system is critical. we now have the opportunity to strengthen the safety of the medicines that are already available, going beyond laboratory tests, which do not always anticipate problems. if concrete examples were needed to justify the importance of a new system, consider what happened with the h1n1 flu vaccine: the vaccine was quickly placed on the market and it is difficult to ascertain the side effects that were detected and that delay a full investigation. that is why we must continue to pursue this path. this directive ensures that healthcare professionals and patients are more actively involved in identifying difficulties. cooperation between countries and the union can be a positive-sum game.
i think that the council has been very clear in its comments. above all, he does not want to discuss the revision of the multiannual financial framework. however, it must be said that since may 2006, when the interinstitutional agreements on the financial framework were approved, it was very clear that there should be, and there was, a guarantee of a mid-term review. the aim of this revision was to launch a new reflection and a new look at the overall picture of europe. it should cover all aspects of the union's expenditure and resources. however, between 2006 and 2010, the crisis arrived and our budgets did not reflect new urgencies or new priorities. the new treaties were also adopted without the governments being prepared to take account of this in the budgetary field. the european financial stabilisation mechanism has even been introduced, which makes 50% of the european budget a guarantee on third party liabilities, without any conclusions being drawn on situations of non-compliance. the point is this: the governments do not want to hear about the revision they have promised, but they want the european parliament to sign off on a regulation which is a mere continuation regulation. the report we are discussing rejects this attempt to belittle this parliament and i hope very much that this parliament will maintain its firmness.
madam president, it seems to me that it is very easy to prove that the current multiannual financial framework needs to be revised urgently. it seems to me easy to prove that it is urgent that this should be more flexible. it is the only way to respond to the european union's wishes, to fulfil our objectives and the hopes that the european citizens place in us. i hope the council will not be a hindrance. i hope that the council will not be a force blocking the development and hope of the european union. between 2007 and 2009, the ceilings of the financial framework were reached or exceeded. major projects such as galileo, the food facility and the european economic recovery plan have only advanced by draining the existing margins. these margins are insignificant for the rest of the period, but will be even smaller because of commitments which have not yet been entered in the budget. we all know that the treaty of lisbon has given us new powers and bodies in the fields of external action, sport, climate change, energy, tourism and civil protection, which means that the european union must have sufficient resources to implement its policies and achieve its objectives. we must combat the crisis and, to combat it and reduce unemployment, we need active policies at european level, which obliges the budgetary authority to define and budget the respective actions and priorities, bearing in mind the added value, the added value of the budget of the european union. and we cannot forget the european union 2020 strategy which has already been adopted, which calls for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth which must start now, and for this we need financial resources for this purpose.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. more than resolutions and strategies, these objectives lack a general political and macroeconomic framework and concrete measures to promote and implement them. unfortunately, the policies pursued by the european union, rather than cohesion, have led to an increase in asymmetries. economic, social and territorial asymmetries. and the risk that these asymmetries will become more pronounced in the future is very real, given the even more restrictive application of instruments such as the stability and growth pact and the serious constraints it imposes. this is a very real risk, given the scarcity of community budgets, which fall far short of what is needed to achieve territorial cohesion and economic and social cohesion. and, on top of that, these funds are also often unequally distributed. the mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas, despite their differences and particularities, are struggling with a common set of perennial difficulties and problems. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the same is true of the common agricultural policy and its successive reforms, the profoundly negative consequences of which must be tackled and corrected. the specific characteristics of the socioeconomic fabric of these regions and their production systems constitute a factor of fragility in the face of the ongoing deregulation of markets. we have made several proposals to correct this situation and to promote the economic and social development of these regions. it is important to help mobilise the endogenous development potential of these regions by supporting local production, stimulating the functioning of local and regional markets, and stimulating and increasing public and private investment in productive activities in order to maintain and create more jobs jobs with rights and fair wages. we must not forget that some of these regions, such as the islands, often have complementary products and markets. complementarities that need to be exploited and strengthened. the increased difficulties they have in accessing community programmes and funding in areas such as research and development must also be recognised and positive discrimination must be made in this respect. on the question of preventing natural and man-made disasters, which is being discussed here today, it must be recognised that these regions are also facing increased vulnerability to the occurrence of disasters and that it is important to strengthen disaster prevention, as the report we have adopted today points out. here again we have warned (we have stated this several times): the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction.
mr president, commissioner, a europe without economic, social and territorial cohesion is not a union. the mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas have their own very difficult challenges which must be overcome in the name of a people's europe. but we must go beyond declarations of intent. otherwise, we have the opposite effect, namely, we reinforce inequalities. these regions are huge reservoirs of important resources. biodiversity, forest, wetlands and green spaces provide an essential service for all, yet suffer from the consequent constraints on their economy. we have to give back. the people of these regions must be supported by all in solidarity. i leave you with two proposals. first, the potential contribution to science and development. many of these regions are true open-air laboratories, given their wealth, but they do not have equal access to research resources. why not equip them with research centres of excellence, generating quality jobs and boosting their economies? a second proposal has to do with energy. these regions can and should be the seedbed for projects that demonstrate the potential of self-sufficiency and energy sustainability, in particular through microgeneration from local sources. dependence was reduced, equality increased and employment was created. finally, i would point out that using gdp as the sole or main indicator for allocating aid funds can only lead to more injustice. it is therefore very important to use the complementary data, in particular those which reflect the social and economic reality of these regions. i cannot but make a special reference here to the peoples of the azores, madeira, the mountainous areas and the depopulated areas of the portuguese interior. through their efforts, they make a major contribution to the development and quality of life of all europeans. these and all regions have their own context. social, economic and territorial cohesion should not be seen as a service of charity. it is here that we must decide whether or not we want a genuine european redistributive policy. i therefore regard this resolution as an important but first step.
mr president, commissioner, the objective of territorial cohesion, now enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, embodies the value of european solidarity and the commitment of the member states and the union to reduce the disparities between the various regions. it is not enough, however, to state in the text of the treaties the objectives to be achieved. there are regions of the union which have permanent constraints which strongly affect their economic and social development. specific programmes are therefore needed to make it possible to overcome the backwardness of these regions in an effective and real way by promoting an adaptation of their development model to their potential and resources and to contribute to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. this encouragement of these regions should not only be achieved through the regional policy instruments of structural adjustment, such as the cohesion fund and the four structural funds, but also through a different use of the various sectoral policies which have a significant territorial impact in each region and can therefore have a stimulating effect on their economies. in determining european assistance to these regions, we should certainly retain gdp as the main indicator of eligibility. however, in view of their natural handicaps, it is appropriate to use other measurable criteria which can provide a more realistic picture of their level of development, such as the unemployment rate, population density or education level. only in this way will it be possible to have a more complete picture of the complex reality of the less-favoured regions. i would like to mention the case of the outermost regions, whose status has been recognised by the new treaty and which are a group of regions of the european union with specific characteristics and which also deserve special treatment. the outermost regions, united by their particular characteristics, also differ in their levels of development. complementary gdp indicators should also be used for these countries, as they can provide a fuller picture of their specific situation and thus help to determine more accurately their level of development.
mr president, i welcome this motion for a resolution which calls for a european strategy to make it possible to translate the principle of territorial cohesion, which was established by the treaty of lisbon, into opportunities for the populations of the territories suffering from various permanent natural constraints to participate in the european project. i come from a region, the azores, where these constraints are accumulating and intensifying, as in other regions called the outermost regions of europe, in accordance with article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the union. following the commission's communication 'the outermost regions: a boon for europe' in 2008, and after the wide-ranging debate in which the outermost regions themselves actively participated, we are now also awaiting our own version of this strategy, which will have to take account not only of our constraints but, above all, of our potential. i therefore call on the commission to present it quickly so that we can establish the best strategy before the debate on the new financial perspective, because we must first define the content of the policies before allocating the means necessary for their implementation, as is happening with the community policies now under review.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the remote areas of the european union, in particular the outermost regions, and the azores, for which i am speaking here, the mountainous regions, the islands, the sparsely populated areas, suffer from natural and geographical constraints which are difficult to overcome and which have a high social cost. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and let us remember that in the european union only 7% of the population lives in cities and that 14 million european citizens live on islands. a union founded and structured on values such as solidarity and social justice has a political and moral obligation to promote the economic and social development of its remote areas. this is the main reason for the european policies of cohesion, territorial cohesion and economic and social convergence. the inclusion of territorial cohesion as a new objective of the union is therefore simply a natural part of its evolution, and strategies for economic and social convergence are a requirement for its growth. this approach, which the european union has long pursued, has produced very positive results in several regions, moving from objective 1 to objective 2. and indeed, even if the regions do not reach objective 2, while europe's remote areas have development rates below the european average and lack adequate support, they still make an irreplaceable contribution to the richness of european diversity, each with its own particularities. these remote areas of the european union have the task of making the most of all the development instruments at their disposal, especially by focusing on what is specific to them. the european union must achieve integration and cohesion in all its areas, at the risk of undermining its own growth project. in this context, the lines of action set out in this proposal should be taken into account by the european commission as a valuable contribution to the success of the european construction project which we all share.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate president van rompuy on the results of this council and in particular on the systematic effort he has made to bring about a genuine economic governance of the european union, an effort which the epp and the portuguese epp members fully support. secondly, i would also like to congratulate the commission on its efforts to give all its support and initiative to the formation of a genuine economic government, and finally i would like to say a word on the question of external relations and in particular the opening-up to pakistan. i think we should be in full solidarity with pakistan, but we should in any case protect those countries which fulfil their obligations to their workers, which suppress child labour and which are not against paying social security. in that sense, i think we should give some aid to pakistan, but not the kind that stimulates the industry that exploits the workers.
mr president, the serious contradictions facing the european union are again highlighted in this debate. it wants to be the most powerful in the world, presenting itself as the great defender of human rights, but some governments, such as the french, continue to commit odious acts of racism and xenophobia at the state level, as they do with the roma, while, for capital, they are slow to take measures to prevent their free movement and speculation, and are only concerned with threatening states that cannot meet the irrational criteria of the stability pact. for people, it's the mass expulsion of european citizens to hide the complete disaster of neoliberal policies. the european union's solidarity with the victims in pakistan and the strengthening of support for cooperation must not be at the expense of sensitive industries in countries and areas with great difficulties and already high unemployment, such as the textile and clothing industry in portugal. it is therefore time to change policies and give priority to the fight against poverty, to invest in production and the creation of jobs with rights and in social progress, giving some real content to the european year against poverty.
in writing. at a time when the developments in the crisis of capitalism in the european union are leading to a worsening of the living conditions of millions of europeans and a worrying deterioration of the economic and social situation in several member states, the council decides to put these issues aside and insist on the old political guidelines which have led us to the present situation. this is why we insist on liberalizing and deregulating world trade, whether in the context of the wto - with the call for the conclusion of the doha round - or in the context of new bilateral agreements. this creates the conditions for putting even more pressure on the most vulnerable production systems and on the labour force, in the direction of their devaluation. the result: more unemployment and more precariousness. the council considers that the time has come to take full advantage of the lisbon treaty and to 'promote europe's interests and values in the world'. the path is clear: closer alignment with nato and the usa, increased external interventionism and a disturbing escalation of militarism in international relations. as regards the so-called 'financial supervision package' mentioned in the conclusions, the message is clear: the main mechanisms of financial speculation remain untouched. as it is, speculation will continue to run rampant.
only about two years after the start of the serious financial crisis did the council and the european parliament agree on a package of measures which they call financial supervision, but which in fact amount to the minimum of intervention in this sector, and without the fundamental basic decisions in this area having been taken beforehand, namely the end of tax havens, the taxation of capital movements, the end of the derivatives market. the commission is also proposing to democratize the ecb and radically change its objectives to give priority to employment with rights and, at the very least, to seek a balance between social progress and public finances. this means that the main mechanisms of financial speculation remain on the market and that the measures now taken are more aimed at facilitating the control by the great powers and their financial groups over the member states with weaker economies than at facing the problem of financial speculation head on and putting a stop to it. on the other hand, we must not forget that this package is part of the measures taken by ecofin on the prior control of national budgets included in the so-called european semester, which deserves our most vehement protest.
the fragility of financial regulatory and supervisory institutions worldwide has been, in some ways, at the root of the difficulties we have been witnessing in the european union and the eurozone. the need to stimulate economic and family aid schemes was a determining factor in the marked increase in public deficits. the package we are discussing today is the creation of a new architecture for financial supervision in europe based on the creation of institutions and mechanisms that will have the task of macro-prudential supervision, that is, of the overall risks of the european financial system, and micro-prudential supervision, in the banking, insurance and securities markets in coordination with the network of national supervisors. there are also other areas where the esas are expected to contribute to financial stability, including by centralising the supervision of credit rating agencies registered in the european union under a single institution, promoting mandatory technical standards and mediating conflicts between national supervisors. the new supervisory architecture could also contribute to the smooth running of new community mechanisms for economic, budgetary and social planning, coordination and supervision within the union.
in writing. − having regard to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that the union must have the resources necessary to attain its objectives and implement its policies, and that the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has introduced new areas of action, the example of which is the eeas. i believe that a mere reallocation of resources or redefinition of priorities within the framework of the multiannual financial framework (mff) will not be sufficient to meet the new needs of the union, and that a fundamental revision of the mff and of the flexibility mechanisms included in the interinstitutional agreement (iaa) is therefore necessary. the union needs greater flexibility to allow it to build up reserves and room for manoeuvre in order to be able to react quickly and effectively to unforeseen or urgent situations. i therefore vote in favour of this report and its recommendations.
in writing. - the proper planning of the european union's activities and their continuity are not compatible with simple annual budgeting, but rather justify the existence of a multiannual financial framework capable of providing its institutions with the appropriate means to fulfil their powers and duties. the interim evaluation of the implementation of the multiannual financial framework justifies the preparation of the report which underlies the resolution we voted for. it contains some of the widely felt concerns about the inadequacies of the multiannual financial framework and the union's current financial capacity to achieve its objectives, which i also share. the criticism of the european union is often based on the lack of transparency in its accounts. the clarity of community budgets and multiannual planning, their sustainability and the respect for them by all those involved in the budgetary process, including, of course, the european parliament, must be instruments to eradicate this suspicion and to motivate citizens and political actors to take a more active part in this area of action.
in writing. − between 2007 and 2009, the ceilings of the current mff were reached or exceeded. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the programme, which is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. the remaining margins under the current financial framework are insignificant for the remainder of the period. the available margin under heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and jobs) shall be less than eur 50 million per year and the overall available margin under all headings shall be limited to eur 436 million in 2012 and eur 435 million in 2013. however, this margin will be further reduced by the existence of commitments which are not yet budgetary. the lisbon treaty brought new powers and bodies and the already adopted eu 2020 strategy, which advocates smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, must now start to be implemented with the necessary financial resources. this is a case for urgently reviewing the current mff and for flexible management of it.
in writing. - this report calls for the rapid adoption of the instruments necessary for the implementation of the budgetary provisions of the lisbon treaty. this means putting the community budget even more at the service of neoliberalism, federalism and militarism - the fundamental pillars of the process of european integration under way, which this treaty enshrines and deepens. we know our position on this, and we could not vote otherwise than against it. we have always criticised the inadequacy of the current multiannual financial framework, which has reduced the structural funds to 0.37% of eu gni, which has meant cuts in programmes of a social and environmental nature, as well as in the fields of research, education and culture. we therefore advocate strengthening it and refocusing its objectives. we are in favour of a community budget which is in the service of genuine economic and social cohesion. in the service of full employment with rights, investment and public services, environmental protection, cooperation and peace. we therefore reject the view of the community budget as an instrument for the commodification of increasing aspects of social life, liberalization, precarious employment, structural unemployment, external interventionism and war.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has given the eu new prerogatives in a number of areas, such as external action, sport, space, climate change, and others. the eu needs to be provided with sufficient resources to achieve its objectives and to implement its policies. it is in this context that a multiannual financial framework is being established, which i agree with, in order to provide the eu with adequate financial planning for the achievement of the ambitious policy objectives set.
in writing. - in view of the current instability of the markets and the particular vulnerability of some member states in relation to financial markets, i believe that the creation of the european financial stabilisation mechanism is justified. i hope that its use will be as low as possible, which would mean that the member states would be able to respond to the crisis, but i would stress the important role that this mechanism can play in the event of serious financial difficulties. the creation of a budget line providing for the possibility of the european financial stability mechanism guarantees being provided as early as this budgetary year has the solidarity merit of providing the union with the capacity to respond more quickly to any problem that arises in the meantime, as well as giving a signal of confidence to the financial markets regarding the collective commitment of the eu to the security and stabilisation of markets and to helping resolve financial disruption situations. despite these advantages, i believe that a serious and highly rigorous assessment of their impact on the union's accounts, which should be of a large magnitude, is necessary and, if necessary, that speed should be sacrificed for the sake of soundness.
in writing. - this amending budget is the result of an initiative by the committee on budgets and its chairman to use an amending budget to introduce an amendment to create a 'pro memoria' item to finance the guarantees provided for in the european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm). the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the financial contribution to the european investment bank (eib) for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the european budget will only be called upon to intervene if the member state receiving the loan is unable to repay it. this amending budget for the financial year 2010 therefore includes the creation of a new budget line 01 04 01 03 for the european union guarantee and, consequently, a new article 802 in the revenue table. a pro memoria mention is proposed for commitment appropriations and payment appropriations as well as for revenue.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis that has hit the world, and which the eu has not escaped, has brought with it a number of challenges, including the need for the eu to respond to speculative attacks on the weakest economies that could undermine the single currency. the european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm) was therefore needed to ensure support to member states that feel threatened by such attacks. the budgetary framework for this mechanism requires the adoption of an amending budget, which is justified in the event of exceptional, unavoidable or unforeseen circumstances.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the recommendations made in this report. the simplification of the vat refund procedure, as provided for in the vat refund directive, is contributing to the further integration of the internal market. as it has been found that delays in complying with the deadlines are sometimes the responsibility of the member states, which have postponed the opening of their web portals or for other technical reasons, i am in favour of not calling into question the right of taxable persons to deduct vat. the preservation of the taxpayer's right to deduct vat is of particular importance and relevance in the current economic climate in which the union finds itself. delays in the refund of vat to companies operating in the internal market may lead to greater difficulties for those companies, in particular in their financial needs, which will consequently have an impact on the recovery of the union economy and the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i consider the proposed amendments to the current directive on vat refunds and the possibility of adopting certain implementing measures which will improve the functioning of web portals to be very important. for the greater effectiveness and simplification of the current tax rules, cost reduction and integrity of the internal market, it is essential that measures on electronic vat refunds are implemented swiftly by a number of member states. i could not agree more with the rapporteur when she says that any delay in vat refunds can have very serious financial consequences for businesses in the internal market, especially in the current context where any financial increase can be catastrophic.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as i believe that this report makes a very positive contribution to improving the efficiency and transparency of tax procedures within the european union. i would stress the defence of the rights of taxpayers, particularly as regards the deduction and refund of vat. the implementation of measures to facilitate and reduce the bureaucratic burden on european companies operating in the different member states of the union, as well as the standardisation of procedures, is crucial to consolidating the internal market and contributing to the relaunch of the european economy. it regrets the delay in the implementation of the measures on electronic vat refunds by some member states. it is clear that in the current economic situation the delay in the refund of vat has serious financial consequences for companies operating in the internal market.
in writing. − directive 2008/09/ec (the 'vat refund' directive) was intended to simplify the vat refund procedure and reduce the administrative burden by introducing an electronic procedure which would allow the taxpayer to submit a single refund application. however, the delay in the implementation of this directive in most member states has led to complaints from several companies, and some amendments to it are now necessary to safeguard the interests of taxpayers, as we all know that the delay in vat refunds can have serious financial consequences for companies operating in the internal market, thus contributing to a slower economic recovery in the eu. hence my vote.
in writing. − over the past few years, the eu pharmacovigilance system has evolved towards better coordination of member states' work. however, the current legislation still contains some gaps and the commission has presented amendments to strengthen pharmacovigilance in the eu and to streamline procedures. the report, while endorsing the amendments proposed by the commission, reinforces them in a number of areas, such as: strengthening the role of the pharmacovigilance advisory committee (praac), which should have the power to recommend action to the committee for medicinal products for human use; strengthening the role of healthcare professionals in voluntarily reporting adverse reactions to medicinal products; strengthening the role of patients in direct reporting of adverse reactions; all adverse reactions to medicines, not just serious ones, should be reported in the eudravigilance database by the competent authorities and companies, i.e. for the first time, all adverse reactions will be centralised in one place in the eu; need for a clearer information leaflet on the main characteristics of medicines. i therefore voted in favour of this report. there can be no doubt that pharmacovigilance is a priority of community public health policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human use, regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, because the agreement reached with the council will allow an effective and transparent european pharmacovigilance system to be established, in particular through the creation of a european medicines safety web portal and means for patients to report adverse reactions to the competent national authorities.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance is the system used to monitor the safety of medicines after they have been authorised for public use. every year 197 000 people die in the eu from adverse reactions to medicines. it is therefore a priority to achieve a good pharmacovigilance system based on adverse reaction reporting by healthcare professionals, companies and patients themselves. the rules governing the centralised procedure are set out in this regulation (for new medicinal products or for medicinal products against cancer, hiv or degenerative diseases), whereas the centralised system is provided for in directive 2001/83/ec. i therefore advocate increased cooperation on pharmacovigilance, which would allow a more comprehensive 'set' of adverse reactions to medicinal products to be obtained, avoiding duplication of monitoring of the same adverse reactions in other member states. i welcome the proposed measures to encourage health professionals to voluntarily report adverse reactions to medicines to their competent authorities. i would particularly like to highlight the creation of an internet portal per member state (article 106 of the directive) where all relevant information on medicinal products will be available to all citizens who wish to consult it. these national portals will be linked to the european portal which will be managed by the european medicines agency (article 26 of the regulation) and available in all official languages of the union.
in writing. the pharmaceutical industry is one of the most important sectors of today's societies in economic, social and scientific terms. the eu is no exception and finds this sector a source of economic growth as well as sustainable employment and contributes to the general well-being of european citizens. however, despite existing legislation, the number of deaths caused by adverse drug reactions in the eu is estimated at around 197 000 per year. on the basis of these assumptions, it is very important that there is consistent, well-founded and targeted legislation in this sector. the main objective of this proposal is to improve the procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use in order to avoid the side effects of medicinal products affecting both citizens and animals, as has happened in the past. i agree with the new measures adopted, which are ultimately an added value that translates into practical solutions for the consumer.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it focuses on a topic pharmacovigilance which is becoming increasingly important in scientifically and technologically developed societies, particularly in relation to biomedical research, and reinforces the previous provision in regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use, updating it to the extent of the needs recognised today. in this context, i would particularly stress the importance of cooperation between the member states, which, by enabling a very considerable increase in the information on adverse reactions to medicinal products, allows for a more rapid and accurate detection of any problems, i.e. allows for more effective pharmacovigilance. the new system also proposes that all adverse reactions to medicines be notified to the european medicines agency, in a broadening of criteria and centralisation of institutions that will contribute to biomedical research, with valuable social benefits.
in writing. − over the past few years, the eu pharmacovigilance system has evolved towards better coordination of member states' work. however, the current legislation still contains some gaps and the commission has presented amendments to strengthen pharmacovigilance in the eu and to streamline procedures. the report, while endorsing the amendments proposed by the commission, reinforces them in a number of areas, such as: strengthening the role of the pharmacovigilance advisory committee (praac), which should have the power to recommend action to the committee for medicinal products for human use; strengthening the role of healthcare professionals in voluntarily reporting adverse reactions to medicinal products; strengthening the role of patients in direct reporting of adverse reactions; all adverse reactions to medicines, not just serious ones, should be reported in the eudravigilance database by the competent authorities and companies, i.e. for the first time, all adverse reactions will be centralised in one place in the eu; need for a clearer information leaflet on the main characteristics of medicines. i therefore voted in favour of this report. there can be no doubt that pharmacovigilance is a priority of community public health policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending, as regards pharmacovigilance, directive 2001/83/ec establishing a community code relating to medicinal products for human use, because the agreement reached with the council will make it possible to define an effective and transparent european pharmacovigilance system, in particular through the creation of a european web portal on the safety of medicinal products and means for patients to notify adverse reactions to the competent national authorities.
in writing. - consumer safety is a matter of vital importance to me, especially when these consumers are also patients who look to the medicines used for a cure or at least a significant improvement in their health. that is why i consider the commitment made to the new pharmacovigilance rules to be important, giving the emea (european medicines agency) centralised powers in this area, in particular through the creation of a pharmacovigilance database. greater, better and more integrated access to information can be vital to reduce the severity and frequency of some adverse reactions and to facilitate and speed up the processes for the suspension or withdrawal of medicinal products with serious adverse reactions. i also think it is important to create an easily accessible online page where all european citizens can find the information leaflet for any medicine in their own language. the right of patients to safety and information is, in my view, a fundamental right, and i shall therefore remain attentive to the other proposals in the pharmaceutical package which have not yet been examined in this house.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance is the system used to monitor the safety of medicines after they have been authorised for public use. every year 197 000 people die in the eu from adverse reactions to medicines. it is therefore a priority to achieve a good pharmacovigilance system based on adverse reaction reporting by healthcare professionals, companies and patients themselves. the rules governing the centralised procedure are set out in regulation 726/2004 (for new medicinal products or for medicinal products against cancer, hiv or degenerative diseases), whereas the centralised system is provided for in this directive. i therefore advocate a strengthening of cooperation on pharmacovigilance at eu level, which would allow a more comprehensive 'set' of adverse reactions to medicines to be obtained, avoiding duplication of monitoring of the same adverse reactions in other member states. i welcome the proposed measures to encourage health professionals to voluntarily report adverse reactions to medicines to their competent authorities. i would particularly like to highlight the creation of an internet portal per member state (article 106 of the directive) where all relevant information on medicinal products will be made available to all citizens who wish to consult it. these national portals will be linked to the european portal which will be managed by the european medicines agency (article 26 of the regulation).
in writing. − pharmacovigilance, which is the assessment, detection and prevention of adverse reactions to medicines, is of great importance, especially when we consider that it is the fifth leading cause of death in hospitals, with an estimated 197 000 deaths per year in the eu. the maximum transparency and the provision of means to the competent authorities should be ensured throughout the process. the functioning of these bodies should be guided solely by the protection of public interest and public health and should therefore be public bodies, independent of any commercial interests. it is important that there is a system, involving healthcare professionals and patients, through which adverse drug reactions can be reported in a safe and reliable manner. we share the rapporteur's view that the member states must continue to play a leading role in the community pharmacovigilance system. therefore, the competent authority of each member state should continue to act as the screening centre for all spontaneous reports of adverse reactions to medicinal products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road.
in writing. the pharmaceutical industry is one of the most important sectors of today's societies in economic, social and scientific terms. the eu is no exception and finds this sector a source of economic growth as well as sustainable employment and contributes to the general well-being of european citizens. however, despite existing legislation, the number of deaths caused by adverse drug reactions in the eu is estimated at around 197 000 per year. on the basis of these assumptions, it is very important that there is consistent, well-founded and targeted legislation in this sector. since the primary objective of this proposal is to improve information to citizens about medicines taken in and their side effects, and since a good overall understanding has been reached on the changes made to the original proposal, i agree with the new measures adopted, which are ultimately an added value that translates into practical solutions for the consumer.
in writing. − the biocidal approach should contribute to the protection of health without leading to undesirable risks. the resolution amends the commission proposal on biocides and aims to harmonise existing legislation at european level and to adapt it to the latest technical developments, which already justifies its relevance. firstly, i believe it is essential to ensure the protection of the environment and animals, particularly in the application of the precautionary principle. the resolution also stresses the need to provide useful information to professionals and users and the importance of research and development, which it reinforces.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, because it strengthens the rules on the authorisation, marketing and use of biocidal products in the eu with a view to protecting human and animal health and the environment, in accordance with the precautionary principle.
in writing. − the high levels of hygiene to which our civilization has become accustomed require an increasingly constant and intensive use of biocidal products. at the same time, these products are required to be increasingly effective and aggressive, which means that their handling becomes more dangerous. therefore, the approach to regulating the placing on the market and use of biocidal products must pay particular attention to the protection of consumers/users. once again, as i have said on other occasions, the rules on this matter must be uniform and valid throughout the eu, otherwise we will not be effectively ensuring the protection of all european consumers and, not least, environmental protection.
in writing. − this regulation aims to harmonise existing legal rules at european level and to adapt them to the latest technical developments. consumers should be able to assume that the products they buy comply with uniform minimum standards in the eu internal market, regardless of the member state in which the product is purchased. clear labelling of treated materials and products is therefore essential as is the corresponding authorisation of biocidal products, whether they originate inside or outside the eu. the european market for biocidal products is estimated at around eur 890 million per year, about 27% of the world market. three large companies account for approximately 25% of the european market. a balance must therefore be struck between the interests of large enterprises and those of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). there is a need to provide more assistance to smes in an industry dominated by several large industrial producers, which is why it is appropriate to exempt smes from paying an annual fee for placing biocidal products on the market. in addition, member states should set up national helpdesks to complement the guidance documents made available by the european chemicals agency (echa).
in writing. − our abstention at first reading expresses our concern about some critical issues that the majority of this parliament has ignored in view of the real need for member states to protect their citizens against the harmful effects on health and the environment of biocidal active substances used on the market. the european chemicals agency, which will be responsible for scientifically assessing whether a biocidal product can be authorised for use on the market, now has three months to draw up its opinion on the conclusions of the assessment and submit it to the commission, compared with the previously planned nine months. we believe that this reduction will not be met with the necessary rigour to protect public health and the environment. we hope that this question will be reconsidered in future negotiations with the commission and the council. we welcome the recognition that member states may take account of regional differences and local environmental problems in their national commitments, as well as the reference to respect for the principle of subsidiarity. we also assess the proposed procedures for nanomaterials and the additional levels of protection that should be considered for more vulnerable groups such as children and pregnant women.
in writing. - every year, some 90 000 tonnes of biocidal products are placed on the market to control pests and germs. the eu's concerns are therefore natural, since it is argued that biocides should be safer and more environmentally friendly. this is intended to strengthen the protection of human health by prohibiting the most toxic chemicals, such as carcinogens or substances harmful to fertility, and to protect animals and the environment. i believe, however, that in addition to this approval, a comprehensive certification of products imported into the eu should also be required. hence my vote
in writing. - i voted in favour of the following report because i believe that europe really needs a financial supervisory body, such as a complex and effective structure, which is able to dominate the eu's financial institutions and ensure their proper functioning. it is in this context that i very much welcome the creation of a european banking authority, a european insurance and occupational pensions authority and a european securities and markets authority, as i believe that only in this way can we improve the level of regulation in the european internal market, ensuring the integrity and proper functioning of the markets, while preserving the stability of the financial system and ensuring the coordination of european and international supervision. only through more effective supervision can we identify risks to financial systems, alerting us in time to crises like the one that hit the world in 2008. this powerful crisis has brought to the fore the need to reform this sector in order to maximise competition by encouraging the existence of genuinely competent supervisory bodies that are truly able to make the much needed difference in this important sector.
in writing. - in line with previous reports on the creation of european authorities in the field of financial regulation, i also vote in favour of the proposal for the creation of a european insurance and occupational pensions authority. i would like to stress once again the importance of providing the european union, and in particular the internal market, with european supervisory authorities in order to mitigate the economic and financial impacts of future stresses on financial markets.
in writing. - if there is one lesson that we all, regardless of our political convictions or worldviews, have learnt from the recent crisis, it is that we need to reform the institutional structure of supervision by creating european bodies and, with this, to reformulate the whole concept of macro- and microeconomic supervision. the agreement we have reached and which is voted on today has many virtues. one of these will be the creation of autonomous european bodies for the supervision of banking, insurance and financial markets. these bodies will not replace national supervisory authorities but will work with them in exercising their prudential and systemic risk mandate in order to prevent a new crisis of the scale of the one we have faced from crashing down on european banking and financial markets. personally, as i have had the opportunity to say many times, i am not afraid of the existence of european supervisory authorities. i think it is essential that they can exercise their mandate independently and competently, thus strengthening the confidence of the markets and their agents, in this case in particular in the insurance and pension sectors.
in writing. − in order to ensure transparency and credibility of european markets and institutions with citizens, the strengthening of the powers, resources and autonomy of european supervision in insurance and pension markets is essential to ensure the effectiveness of the current reform that the institutions of the european union are committed to implement in the supervision of financial markets, in order to avoid new risks of a crisis such as the one currently affecting the global economy, with particular impact on european social reality. the commission has put forward a set of proposals aimed at establishing a more efficient, integrated and sustainable system of financial supervision in the eu. this approach is based on a european system of financial supervision (esfs). the commission proposes to set up three new european decentralised agencies: the european banking authority (eba), the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and the european securities and markets authority (esma). it should be noted that the impact of the creation of these three agencies on the european budget amounts to some eur 59.699 million for the years 2011 to 2013.
in writing. - this report is included in the so-called financial supervision package. in its vote we took account of the way in which the council, the commission and the european parliament itself have delayed action in this area and have limited themselves to decisions which do not alter the fundamental question of financial speculation, including the question of sovereign debt insurance which functions as a highly speculative derivative product. without a charge, the creation of european authorities in these areas will be of little use. so our vote against is mainly a protest against the fact that no proposals have been put forward so far on the end of tax havens, the taxation of capital movements and the end of the derivatives market. this means that the main mechanisms of financial speculation remain on the market and that the measures now taken are more aimed at facilitating the control of the great powers and their financial groups over the member states with weaker economies than at facing the problem of financial speculation head on and putting a stop to it.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has brought to light the major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation of the financial system, where several groups operate across borders, with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is therefore essential if we are to have an effective supervisory model, along with many other control mechanisms, to be decided on and implemented with real urgency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the following report because i consider that the current eu system has several shortcomings in relation to macro-financial surveillance and because i consider that this is a very important issue to be forgotten and i commend the initiatives taken to address this issue. the recent financial crisis that has hit the world, if anything, has undoubtedly served to draw our attention to the fragility of new economic systems, the constant economic risk we are living in and the dire need to create a body in charge of macroeconomic surveillance within the eu. that is why i am pleased that members from all political groups voted in favour of this report, and it was approved by an overwhelming majority, which illustrates quite well the general concern about fiscal sovereignty. in my view, it is of the utmost importance that this new system of financial supervision should function without repressing the financing of the economy, safeguarding the single market, allowing the eu to maintain its status and providing timely warning of risk situations. it is for all these reasons that i welcome the creation of the european systemic risk board.
in writing. - i am in favour of the generality of the proposals in this report and of the creation of a european systemic risk board (esrb). the european parliament, aware of its responsibilities and in the use of the new powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon, should be called upon to play a decisive role in improving the eu supervisory framework. the inability to address the weaknesses of the existing supervisory structure, highlighted by the current financial crisis, has made it all the more urgent to create macro-prudential supervisory mechanisms capable of ensuring the stability of european financial markets. the unity of the single market must also be safeguarded and the eu must be given the tools to defend the euro and other international currencies on a global scale. i would also like to underline the important contribution that the esrb is making by calling for european-level macroeconomic analysis to assess potential systemic risks. given the fragility of micro-prudential supervision at member state level, i believe that close collaboration between the esrb, central bankers, supervisors and the 'real economy' will not only legitimize the action of the esrb itself but will also be a relevant input for the effectiveness of its action.
in writing. - if there is one lesson we have all learned from the recent crisis, it is that the institutional structure of supervision needs to be reformed by creating european bodies, and thus the whole concept of macro- and microeconomic supervision needs to be reformed. personally, as i have had the opportunity to say many times, i am not frightened by the existence of european supervisory authorities, quite the contrary. i think it is essential that they exist and that they can carry out their mandates independently and competently, thus strengthening the confidence of the markets and their agents. in this particular case, the creation of a european systemic risk board aims to provide the european union with an effective supervisory system without impeding economic growth; to protect the single market from the risk of fragmentation; and finally, through the development of a european macroprudential perspective, to help solve the problem of fragmentation of individual risk analysis at national level by strengthening the effectiveness of early warning mechanisms and enabling risk assessments to be translated into concrete action. it is therefore welcome to the creation of this european systemic risk committee, and hopes that excellence in the fulfilment of its mandate will be the starting point for better supervision in the union.
in writing. − the creation of structures capable of preventive intervention, supported by a permanent and duly substantiated assessment, should be a priority in the decision-making process and policy action of the european union in the current framework of the response to the current crisis, where it is imperative to ensure the efficiency of a community macroprudential supervision of the financial system. the european systemic risk board, by being able to monitor and assess the risks of the financial system during periods of normal operation, could be the guarantor of financial stability, which is absolutely necessary for the real economy to develop and provide growth, wealth and jobs. i would stress the rapporteur's concern to ensure a balanced and realistic proposal, through effective supervision that safeguards the financing of the economy, the single market and the interests and objectives of the european union.
in writing. - in voting on this and other reports included in the so-called financial supervision package, we took account of the way in which the council, the commission and the european parliament itself have delayed action in this area and limited themselves to decisions which do not alter the fundamental issue of financial speculation, including with sovereign debt. so our vote against is above all a protest against the fact that we have not heard any proposals on the end of tax havens, the taxation of capital movements and the end of the derivatives market. this means that the main mechanisms of financial speculation remain on the market and that the measures now taken are more aimed at facilitating the control by the great powers and their financial groups over the member states with weaker economies than at facing the problem of financial speculation head on and putting a stop to it. the implementation of these measures may have some positive impact at an early stage, but their scope is too limited and if the basic measures are not adopted, time will show that speculation will continue.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in terms of micro- and macroprudential supervision. supervisory models have not kept pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where several financial groups develop their cross-border operations with systemic risk. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries, and in fact only fails. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. i believe that the creation of the european systemic risk board is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model and to avoid systemic risks caused by the cross-border nature of large financial groups. but many other steps will have to be taken to ensure that the truly immoral situations which have occurred in the recent past, with damage to economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system, do not happen again.
in writing. - i shall abstain from voting. on the one hand, the commitment reached on macro and micro-prudential supervision is a step forward from the current lack of any assessment and regulation of financial risk at union level. but on the other hand, the solutions that have been established are not up to the problems they are intended to tackle. the proposal does not take due account of the interdependence of the myriad of actors and products that make up the financial system, as well as their relationships with the real economy. none of this can be reduced to a solution of the sum of the parts on which the supervisory architecture is based. the ecb's role in the world economy is not limited to the financial sector, but it is also a major player in the world economy. finally, the european systemic risk board ends up being the weak link in a system which concentrates effective powers in the interests of the states, extending in the financial area the intergovernmental logic which marks the present european construction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. in view of the integration of international financial markets, it is essential that the union should make a strong commitment at world level. the esrb should draw on the technical expertise of a high-level scientific committee and assume all the responsibilities that are required at the global level in order to ensure that the union's voice is heard on financial stability, in particular by cooperating closely with the international monetary fund, the financial stability board and all g20 partners.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the financial crisis has highlighted the failings of financial markets at global level, and european markets were no exception, not avoiding contagion in an increasingly integrated world economy. in parallel with the proposals to create an integrated level of supervision at macro and micro level, this report proposes a package of revisions to the sectoral directives, mainly in the area of banking and securities, in order to adapt them to a new architecture of banking supervision. with the g20 also committing to take action to build a stronger and globally more consistent supervisory and regulatory framework for the future of the financial sector, the eu's response needs to be ambitious, addressing specific cases such as macro and micro supervision, and global regulation, focusing on harmonisation and cooperation on systemic risks at the global level. this is a unique opportunity to introduce our policy objectives from an integrated view.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the financial supervision package for the reasons set out below. the establishment of the three authorities should be accompanied by the development of a single code of rules in order to ensure consistent harmonisation and uniform application and thus contribute to a more efficient functioning of the internal market. the authorities should ensure a high, effective and consistent level of regulation and supervision, taking into account the interests of all member states and the diverse nature of financial institutions. the subject matter of technical standards must be of a genuinely technical nature and their drafting requires the expertise of supervisory experts. technical standards adopted as delegated acts should further develop, specify and determine the conditions for the consistent harmonisation of standards included in the basic acts adopted by the european parliament and the council, by supplementing or amending non-essential elements of the legislative act. this directive should identify situations where it may be necessary to resolve a procedural or substantive issue concerning compliance with union law that supervisors cannot resolve on their own. in such a situation, one of the supervisory authorities involved should be able to refer the matter to the competent european supervisory authority.
in writing. − the increasing interconnection between national markets and the multinational or at least transnational nature of many of the main players in financial markets, and especially the economic and financial crisis now felt around the world, have made it clear that the way in which supervision operates at european level needs to be rethought, re-formulated and even re-engineered. in this context of systemic adjustment to the present reality, the three european authorities to which this resolution refers are of particular importance, having been given particular responsibilities in the new structure which is intended to be better able to meet the challenges which are now being posed and which have repercussions for all european citizens. i hope that this new architecture which is now being designed will be successful in practice, that our joint efforts to reduce risks and safeguard transparency and truth in the markets will not be satisfied with the solutions which have now been found, and that we will always be available to contribute, in the light of experience and taking into account best practice, to improving what needs to be improved.
in writing. - i vote overall in favour of the measures presented in this report with a view to defining the competences of the european supervisory authorities. although it has highlighted the fragility of financial markets, the current situation in the european and global economy is a good opportunity for the eu to develop a stronger supervisory and regulatory framework consistent with the needs of a globalised economy. the union's responses to the crisis need to be bolder, both at the macro-prudential and micro-prudential level of supervision and regulation. recognising the complexity of designing the new supervisory and regulatory architecture of the union, i believe that it should be based on the precautionary principle. it is also important that the esas have effective capacity to go beyond the monitoring of systemic risks of national financial institutions and are also empowered to assess cross-border and systemic risks at european level as well as international systemic risks.
in writing. − as is now clear, due to the consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, the continued success of the european integration process is absolutely dependent on the ability to find solutions for strengthening the competences of integrated supervisory intervention structures at european level. national sovereignty is increasingly dependent on supranational intervention through community structures with resources and powers to act and devise strategies outside the influence of national and isolated wishes and needs. i therefore reaffirm my support for the consolidation of the competences of the european structures responsible for acting and supervising the activities of the various european financial sectors, such as the european banking authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. supervisory models have accompanied the globalisation of the financial system, where several groups operate across borders with systemic risk. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims at an overall improvement in the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. the establishment of a european system of financial supervisors and the definition of their responsibilities is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model in all sectors. but many other steps will have to be taken to ensure that the truly immoral situations which have occurred in the recent past, with damage to economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system, do not happen again.
in writing. − this directive should identify situations where it may be necessary to resolve a procedural or substantive issue concerning compliance with union law that supervisors cannot resolve on their own. in such a situation, one of the supervisory authorities involved should be able to refer the matter to the competent european supervisory authority. that european supervisory authority shall act in accordance with the procedure laid down in the regulation establishing it and in this directive.
in writing. − the financial crisis has revealed inadequate financial regulation and weak market surveillance mechanisms. we all know that mere cooperation between national supervisory authorities was not enough for a single internal market, a genuine area without frontiers. that is why i believe that with a new european supervisory authority, it will be easier to prevent future crises, because we need more agile institutions for faster responses. i believe that the european systemic risk board will have a leading role in monitoring and assessing potential threats to our financial stability. we need a set of rules that will give us a level playing field and more adequate protection for our depositors and consumers, taxpayers and small and mediumsized enterprises, as it is essential to safeguard the position of those who have suffered most from this crisis and to ensure credit facilities in future crises. we must also pay particular attention to the large financial institutions, usually called too big to fail, which can, as has been seen, cause the collapse of an entire world financial system.
in writing. - i am in general in favour of the measures proposed in this report for the creation of a european banking authority. the financial crisis has exposed the many weaknesses in financial supervision and in particular in the union banking system. in view of this, the european citizens have noted that urgent measures have been taken by the european parliament and the commission. at a later stage, where we are now, we must develop preventive mechanisms which will enable us to better adjust the european economy to possible future shocks. in this sense, the creation of this european banking authority is a key contribution to financial supervision, as it will be responsible for defining the modus operandi and governance model in crisis management, from the need for early intervention to the possible resolution of insolvency proceedings, if necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces innovative proposals concerning the supervision of financial institutions, especially for crossborder institutions. i think it is important that the large financial institutions, whose failure could lead to the collapse of the entire financial system, are given special attention in this document. the creation of a european fund pre-financed by financial institutions to protect depositors and to rescue institutions in difficulty, should their failure be likely to ruin the system as a whole, seems to me an appropriate solution to fill the gaps and inefficiencies of a system which has led us into the deep crisis we are currently experiencing.
in writing. - if there is one lesson we have all learned from the recent crisis, it is that the institutional structure of supervision needs to be reformed by creating european bodies, and thus the whole concept of macro- and microeconomic supervision needs to be reformed. that is how the european banking authority comes into being. as confidence in banking has been severely shaken by the global financial crisis, it is urgent that markets and europeans in general regain confidence in the soundness and robustness of their banking institutions and, in particular, regain confidence in supervisors. that is why the role of this new european banking authority is so crucial for the future. and on this matter we can have no doubt: when there are financial institutions whose failure could cause the collapse of the entire financial system, we can't keep whistling to the side. as my colleague, mr garcía-margallo, who has played a key role in all this supervision, rightly says, there are only two options in this matter: more powers for the national supervisory authorities or more europe. more protectionism or more internal market. and in this matter i have no doubt which way we should go, and that is more europe and more internal market, with careful and competent supervision.
in writing. − a european banking supervisory authority will consolidate the effectiveness of the deep reform of the current system of financial market supervision in which the institutions of the european union are engaged today, in order to ensure a structural basis for intervention with sufficient powers to avoid a repetition of the last global financial crisis, which would be unbearable for society and the world economy. it is absolutely inappropriate to accept a system of supervision based on the action of national authorities whose jurisdiction ends at their borders, when the market players are financial institutions whose intervention is located in the european area without borders. i therefore emphasize the rapporteur's attention to the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises and the european perspective of the proposal.
in writing. - it is another report included in the so-called financial supervision package and based on the proposal for a regulation establishing a european banking authority which is an integral part of a european system of financial supervision. one of its articles states that the objective of the authority is to protect the public interest by contributing to the short, medium and long-term stability and effectiveness of the financial system for the union's economy, its citizens and its businesses. again, these are decisions which do not alter the basic question of financial speculation. without putting a stop to the derivatives market and tax havens, the creation of european authorities in these areas will be of little use. so our vote against is mainly a protest against the fact that no proposals have been put forward so far on the end of tax havens, the taxation of capital movements and the end of the derivatives market. what is clear about this whole financial package is that it is intended to create the illusion that the problems of the crisis are being solved, but without touching on the underlying issues that allow the financial groups to make large profits at the expense of speculation, including on the sovereign debt of the member states with the weakest economies.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. i believe that the creation of the european banking authority is essential if we are to have an effective supervisory model. but many other steps will have to be taken to ensure that the truly immoral situations which have occurred in the recent past, with damage to economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system, do not happen again.
i voted in favour of the resolution by agreeing to the proposal from the european commission and the respective amendments tabled by the european parliament.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i think it is essential that the eu develops a new financial architecture with strong and aligned financial supervision across the various european countries, thus creating mechanisms to prevent crises such as the one we are still experiencing, reacting in a timely manner and contributing to the resolution of the systemic problems that persist in our large markets. it is of the utmost importance to strengthen these mechanisms, because without them europe will continue to suffer from a major financial handicap which prevents the much desired stability of prices and financial markets. only by regulating and supervising banking and financial systems across the eu, by sharing data in a rigorous and confidential way, can we be more competitive and stable globally, and build a stronger and safer economy.
in writing. − the proposed architecture of financial supervision and regulation currently under discussion within the union cannot function efficiently if supervision remains fragmented at member state level. on the basis of this principle, i am voting in favour of this report. it is clear that future crises cannot be avoided, but their social and economic effects on the union economy can be mitigated by developing more sophisticated micro and macroprudential supervisory mechanisms. the european systemic risk board, as the macro-prudential supervisor, will therefore have a key role to play. however, since it cannot impose measures or sanctions on either member states or financial institutions, its credibility is assured, also by virtue of the prestige and high reputation of the european central bank.
in writing. - if there is one lesson we have all learned from the recent crisis, it is that the institutional structure of supervision needs to be reformed by creating european bodies, and thus the whole concept of macro- and microeconomic supervision needs to be reformed. personally, as i have had the opportunity to say many times, i am not afraid of the existence of european supervisory authorities. i think it is essential that they exist and that they can carry out their mandates independently and competently, thus strengthening the confidence of the markets and their agents. europe urgently needs to develop specialised macro-prudential oversight capabilities to detect systemic risks, i.e. to detect risks to financial stability at the european level and, where necessary, to sound the alarm and ensure monitoring of the situation. however, the current supervisory structure that we are approving, and in particular the european systemic risk board, which will not be able to impose measures or sanctions on member states or financial institutions, relies to a large extent on the european central bank (ecb) to be able to carry out its activities and to fulfil the tasks assigned to it. i believe that the ecb's prestige and reputation will be an asset to the new european systemic risk board.
in writing. − the need to ensure conditions for stronger and more effective european supervision of financial markets has been the subject of a strong commitment by the european parliament, which has become more evident and valued with the development of the current economic and financial crisis. a system of supervision based on a nationalist basis, based on the individualistic logic of each member state, is proving increasingly ineffective and fallible in the face of the global dimension of financial markets, in a logic of increasingly integrated development. i therefore support this legislative resolution of the european parliament. with the appropriate technical support and drawing on the capacity and resources of the european central bank, the european systemic risk board (esrb) will undoubtedly play a decisive role in the european union in acting more rapidly and in advance by analysing information on the evolution of systems and detecting potential risks. this will be key to preventing new crises or, in the case of their inevitability, to mitigating their negative impacts and to finding ways to reverse the trend quickly.
in writing. − the need to respond to a future financial crisis and the new models of macro and microprudential supervision have led to the creation of the european systemic risk board (esrb) and the european system of financial supervisors (esfs). however, only the prestige of the ecb will make this new system efficient, since the new esrb will not be able to impose measures or sanctions on member states or financial institutions, and its warnings will not be binding. this new supervisory architecture, which is coordinated by and dependent on the ecb, will be tasked with anticipating future crisis scenarios in order to take preventive measures to prevent the emergence of new crises. it will also be necessary to ensure that all choices for management positions throughout the system are based on criteria of genuine competence and merit rather than on short-term tactics of the distribution of powers between states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament has always played a leading and central role in building a single market for financial services, actively promoting harmonisation, transparency and competition in order to provide greater and more adequate protection for those who need it most, such as small investors and consumers. we have already called for such conditions to be created on a regular basis and have pointed out some shortcomings in the supervision of financial markets. i therefore urge the european commission to look at how best to move towards a more integrated supervisory structure, in parallel with the delicate process of building an ever more robust integrated single market for financial services. i hope that this report will help us to create a community body which will be able to contribute effectively to the sound implementation of a good european harmonization process and set an example for the world.
in writing. - for the same reasons and because of the importance attached to the creation of a european banking authority, i am voting in favour of the creation of a european financial markets authority. i do so because the vulnerability of markets to the heavy speculation that has been seen in financial markets in recent years and the bankruptcy of european companies, and the consequent repercussions on the dynamism of the internal market and the union's economy; or cases such as lehman brothers, which exposed the union's fragility in a globalised world, have highlighted the need to strengthen regulation in european and world markets. i also believe that the creation of the european stability fund, as presented in this report, could be a valuable contribution to monitoring the financial institutions most exposed to risk.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for advocating reforms of the eu's financial markets to ensure more efficient supervision and the development of rules to better identify risks in the financial system. i support these measures by establishing a single european supervisory authority for crossborder institutions at eu level and the establishment of a european crisis resolution mechanism for them.
in writing. - if there is one lesson that we all, regardless of our political convictions or worldviews, have learnt from the recent crisis, it is that we need to reform the institutional structure of supervision by creating european bodies and, with this, to reformulate the whole concept of macro- and microeconomic supervision. the agreement we have reached and which was voted on today has many virtues. one of these will be the creation of autonomous european bodies for the supervision of banking, insurance and financial markets. these bodies will not replace national supervisory authorities but will work with them in exercising their prudential and systemic risk mandate in order to prevent a new crisis of the scale of the one we have faced from crashing down on european banking and financial markets. as financial markets have been hit hard by the crisis, confidence needs to be restored as a matter of urgency, and this is to a large extent due to the role of supervisory authorities, which will need to exercise their mandate competently and effectively in order to instill the necessary confidence in investors and businesses.
in writing. - for the effective regulation of financial and speculative markets, and in view of the circumstances which have given rise to this crisis with serious consequences for europe and developed countries, it is essential to ensure effective and efficient intervention in securities transactions, in line with the efforts of the european parliament and the other european institutions. the aim is to create a structural basis for monitoring, evaluation, monitoring and action which, within an efficient legal framework, will prevent the recurrence of situations such as those which led to the outbreak of the current economic, financial and social crisis. in this context, a european securities and markets authority, together with the appropriate legal personality, will need to be endowed with legal, administrative and financial autonomy in order to be able to ensure the safety and soundness of markets and the transparency of transactions in order to avoid new systemic risks.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. this directive thus aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by ensuring a high level of prudential supervision and regulation, the protection of depositors, investors and all beneficiaries. it is therefore essential to safeguard the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets, to maintain the stability and sustainability of public finances and to strengthen international coordination and cooperation in the field of supervision. the creation of the european financial markets authority is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model. but many other steps will have to be taken to ensure that the truly immoral situations which have occurred in the recent past, with damage to economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system, do not happen again.
in writing. - i shall abstain from voting. on the one hand, the macro- and microprudential supervisory system is a step forward from the current fragmentation of supervision by individual countries. however, the proposed legislation on the european supervisory authorities is omitted as regards the treatment to be given to financial firms which already have a size and diversity of business that the union cannot allow to fail given the systemic risk they now represent. it should be clear in this document that these companies should be broken up and the business units dealing with opaque financial products closed. the document also fails to tackle the problem of the rating agencies with sufficient firmness. the european parliament should have been clearer in stating that the price of sovereign debt cannot be determined by a rating oligopoly which classifies itself as a market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. the authority should act with a view to improving the functioning of the internal market, in particular through a high, effective and consistent level of regulation and supervision, taking into account the interests of all member states and the diverse nature of financial institutions.
in writing. − the infringement of intellectual property rights is a threat not only to the health and safety of consumers but also to all sectors of industry and in particular to the creative and innovative industries. in this regard, it is important that the measures referred to in this resolution are implemented, in particular in supporting and training companies in obtaining patents and in combating counterfeiting of products, and by raising awareness at european, national and local levels of the negative impact of counterfeiting and piracy on the economy and society. i also agree with the need to increase awareness among young european consumers. i also stress the importance of designing more suitable payment methods to facilitate the legal acquisition of content and thus increase the volume of legal transfers by electronic means in the eu.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report because i felt that the desirable balance had not been struck between respect for the rights of artists, the need to combat counterfeiting and piracy and the freedom of access to the internet.
in writing. - artistic, scientific, industrial and cultural creation deserves protection, and that is why there are internationally recognised intellectual property rights (ipr). these ensure the integrity of the creation/invention and must protect it against counterfeiting and piracy. however, modern technologies - notably the internet - have made piracy and counterfeiting easier and more accessible. we all know how easy it is to illegally download or buy counterfeit products online and how these behaviors affect, very specifically, the creative industries. i agree with the rapporteur when she talks about the need to educate consumers to respect ipr and to reject counterfeiting and piracy, however easy and less serious they may seem to them. i also think it is very important to create a digital internal market for the legal provision of online content as a way of combating piracy on the internet. these are active and positive measures to combat piracy and counterfeiting, and they are in line with the approach i advocate that should be taken to this matter.
in writing. − the protection of intellectual property rights is a cause which must mobilise the whole european community in the name of a developed and fair society and the development of a competitive economy. the european parliament, by adopting this report, is making a strong contribution to overcoming the remaining gaps in the legal and regulatory framework in order to reverse the current situation of frequent infringement of copyright on the internet. it is important to create the conditions for effective intervention in the european area by ensuring greater cooperation between member states and national authorities within a common intervention framework, especially as regards the borderless internet market. the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy should play a key role in continuously improving the effectiveness of the fight against copyright infringement on the international market.
in writing. - there are several contradictions in this report. although, on the one hand, there are aspects which deserve our full support, particularly when it defends copyright, even stating that the encouragement of the creation and promotion of cultural industries is not against creators, on the other hand, it enters into the field of patents and acta (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement), without taking into account the specificities of various sectors. hence our abstention at the end. in this way, we want to send a signal of recognition of the existence of copyright problems and the need to defend them in various areas, including the internet. we know that counterfeiting and piracy must be combated, but we must take account of the diversity of sectors and not confuse copyright with patents, particularly in the field of software or medicines. we stress the call on the european commission to strike a balance between the various interests at stake, although we are not sure that this will be achieved. but we will continue to be attentive to the development of the situation, particularly in defending the interests of authors and cultural industries in countries such as portugal, without forgetting other interests, such as those of disadvantaged populations and peoples.
in writing. - intellectual property rights have been flouted throughout history. however, technical progress in information technology, particularly the internet, has exacerbated the problem. it is also important to stress that any infringement of intellectual property rights (ipr) is very harmful to economic growth and is the main cause of the so-called "parallel economy", with all the harm it causes. only with the uncompromising defence of intellectual property rights is it possible to develop technical and scientific innovation, to discover new patents and to develop the cultural industry, which contribute in a strong way to the growth of the eu economies. i believe that by adopting this report we are making an important contribution to achieving these objectives. hence my vote.
in writing. - i personally voted in favour of the gallo report on the protection of intellectual property rights in the internal market because i believe it takes a fair and balanced position on this important issue. intellectual property rights (ipr) deserve no less protection than other rights. the creators and researchers, as well as the companies which market them, are entitled to such protection. the european economy is also based on creativity, research and innovation. the complacency with which a certain anarchist-leftism looks at the violation of ipr, under the pretext of internet freedom, is not justified. like defamation, libel, or racial hatred, they are not illegal just because they are practiced on the internet. nor should ipr infringements be condoned. the right to private copying already adequately guarantees the individual's right to protected works. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of intellectual creators are not infringed.
in writing. − mountain, island and sparsely populated regions face specific challenges which require special consideration, in particular difficulties in access, energy supply and regional integration, as well as the consequences of climate change and migration. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that these regions should be guided by special regional development strategies and programmes, given the important characteristics which distinguish them from other regions. you have to bet on its specificities and potentials. i would also stress the use of statistical indicators adapted to the territory and not just the economic dimension. this will enable a more accurate picture to be drawn of the level of development of these regions.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the treaty of lisbon has enshrined territorial cohesion, alongside economic and social cohesion, among the eu's fundamental objectives, which is the most visible and quantifiable manifestation of european solidarity. eu cohesion policy should cover all eu regions, with particular emphasis on regions with special geographical characteristics, such as the portuguese archipelagos of madeira and the azores. i am convinced that only a specific, flexible and integrated european policy framework with legal and financial implications, capable of adapting to the scale of intervention most appropriate for the region in question, while at the same time responding to common challenges (globalisation, climate change, demographic change), will be able to combat development inequalities between and within member states and regions. i support this resolution and call on both the commission and the member states to ensure that these regions can continue to benefit from specific provisions, particularly in the context of the new financial perspective, and to draw up specific eu measures and programmes tailored to each region, aimed at its structural adjustment, making it more competitive and capable of facing new challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a european strategy for the economic and social development of mountain, island and sparsely populated regions, because specific measures are needed to overcome the limitations and exploit the potential of these regions, in accordance with the objective of territorial cohesion introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − within the eu, with all its asymmetries and regional differences, one situation deserves special treatment: mountainous, insular and sparsely populated regions. these regions, because of their geographical and demographic characteristics, are facing specific difficulties and therefore deserve special treatment in regional development and cohesion policy. the cohesion policies provided for in the treaties cannot be a mere political objective translated into the legislative bodies of the eu. they must be concrete and objective policies which enable the sustainable development of all regions, including those which, for natural reasons, are most difficult and are more remote (in the case of islands) or inaccessible (in the case of mountain areas). as a portuguese, this is a particularly important issue for me, and i therefore hope that the commission will welcome this resolution and follow up the proposals that are left here.
in writing. the resolution could provide guidelines and recommendations relevant to regions with structural and geographical constraints which constitute constraints on their economic and social development. however, it is a side-effect and does not touch on the really important points in the analysis of this problem. the exclusive reference to territorial cohesion overlooks the importance of a fundamental pillar of economic and social development: economic and social cohesion. the document welcomes the inclusion of territorial cohesion as a new objective of the union a guideline expressed in the lisbon treaty. as we have already said on more than one occasion, new cohesion objectives must be given new and sufficient financial resources, otherwise they will become the dead letter of the treaties or mere propaganda. that did not happen. the existing funds for the convergence objective have proved insufficient and the policies being pursued by the eu are aggravating the existing asymmetries rather than correcting them. although mountainous, island and sparsely populated regions share certain constraints and conditions, each needs to be dealt with specifically in accordance with its differences and particularities. we cannot but regret the absence of any specific reference to the outermost regions.
in writing. - with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the principle of territorial cohesion has gained greater prominence and has shown particular concern about the asymmetries existing in the various regions. the mountain, island and sparsely populated regions should be given a special status to overcome the strong constraints inherent in them. in order to make these regions better able to adapt, a european strategy is therefore essential to promote the social and economic development of the least favoured regions through specific programmes to overcome the backlog of these regions. hence my vote.
in writing. - the regions of the european union are very different in their level of development. the objective of territorial cohesion, an expression of european solidarity, is to eliminate these differences and promote harmonious development by means of financial structural adjustment and the adaptation of the various sectoral policies to the characteristics of each region. the mountain, island and sparsely populated regions are particularly disadvantaged regions whose social and economic development is affected by their natural and geographical characteristics. particular attention should therefore be paid to them, in particular by taking into account a number of indicators of their level of development, complementary to gdp, which take due account of the specificities of each region, by eliminating rigid criteria for eligibility for cross-border cooperation programmes, by coordinating the various means of financing and by establishing partnerships between the various levels of government. in this context, the outermost regions, which have some characteristics which overlap with those of these regions, by the same token, justify an analogous application of the proposals contained in this resolution, in accordance with the specificities of each region concerned.
mr president, in april 2008, the international criminal court issued an arrest warrant against bosco ntaganda militia for war crimes such as recruiting child soldiers and mass murder of civilians. in addition, he has been involved in the recruitment and use of children by the fdlr. this behaviour by the congolese authorities, in violation of their obligations as a member of the cotonou agreement, encourages the feeling of impunity and explains the barbarities that continue to take place in the drc, such as the mass rape of 500 women and children, including babies, in the mining district of north kivu last august, in the face of the shameful inaction of monusco forces, as confirmed by the un deputy secretary-general, atul khare. corruption and impunity in the drc explain the miserable behaviour of the rebels, who are in the service of neighbouring governments, as well as government officials and un forces. we will not be effective against corruption and impunity in the drc unless we tackle head-on the problem of illegal mining and trade in minerals which finances armed groups and fuels conflict and human rights violations, as demonstrated in the murder of floribert chebeya. we urgently need to adopt measures in the european union and the un security council in line with the provisions of the recent us law on conflict minerals, identifying congolese, european, american, chinese and transnational companies that make their living from the exploitation of the mines controlled by the rebels, as well as those not controlled by the government. name and shame, however, is not enough. the marketing and use of these minerals in technological equipment, jewellery and other everyday products must be banned and suppressed worldwide. we also need to strengthen the eusec and eupol missions we have in the drc and give them the means to really make a difference in the security sector. and to do this, it is essential that they reinforce the gender perspective in their training and action, involving congolese parliamentarians, congolese women's organisations, not only in the protection and assistance of victims, but as decisive actors in peacebuilding, respect for the law and the fight against corruption and human rights violations.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. we are faced with reciprocity which is asymmetric. now, if it is asymmetrical, it is not true reciprocity. we are faced with a redundant prior registration. but if we ask for pnr data, if we ask for swift data from europeans, we are now also asking for prior registration for europeans travelling to the united states, and we are faced with a tourist tax which, as our liberal colleague said, is completely contrary to the objective of strengthening links between tourist visits to the united states. but it is not to our advantage here to criticize the united states for doing so. the united states - which, by the way, is a country i know and admire very much - does, after all, what its elected representatives decide should be done. i believe that the problem is much more on our side than on the united states side. i think it is first of all a problem of mentality in our diplomatic service. the european union has been a major player in the fight against fraud, and it is not just the european union that is responsible for this. it is a problem of lack of solidarity, because if one member does not have a visa exemption, the other members should fight with him. and it is a problem of reciprocity, but in a different sense than it has been used here. we have been talking about reciprocity here as if reciprocity fell from the sky, as if we should ask for reciprocity. well, we can reciprocate. other countries do that. at christmas 2007, when the security level for brazilian citizens in the united states increased, brazil immediately also increased its security level for the entry of american citizens into brazil, and immediately the united states backed down. europe must do more of this if it is to be more respected in the transatlantic dialogue.
the s&d group welcomes the fact that the european union has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised. what do they have in common in respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms? these countries continue to share a primitive and abhorrent practice: the death penalty. some states use this barbaric method in secret, without even making public the statistics of executions. this is the case in china, egypt, iran, malaysia, sudan, thailand and vietnam. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. parliament believes that the european union should use every opportunity to promote the abolition of the death penalty, in particular at bilateral and multilateral summits and meetings, particularly within the united nations, in the negotiation of international agreements, during official visits or in dialogue with third countries within the framework of external action, cooperation and financial aid policies. it is important that the member states of the european union commit themselves to implementing the un general assembly resolution on the universal moratorium. the high representative, catherine ashton, should instruct the european external action service to actively promote the universal abolition of the death penalty. there's still a way to go. today, however, there are already 154 states that have abolished the death penalty in law or in practice. it is essential that the european union delegations include an adequate number of human rights officials dedicated to pursuing the universal abolition of the death penalty. i also call on the high representative to promote a system of identification of all citizens of the european union sentenced to the death penalty in any country in the world and to mobilize all efforts to save them from execution. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's internal policy on the death penalty was implemented swiftly. at the external level, the union must not only ensure, as it is obliged to do under the charter of fundamental rights, that no one is expelled or extradited to a state where he or she is at risk of being subject to the death penalty, but also ensure that information transmitted to third countries under data exchange agreements does not put anyone at risk of being sentenced to the death penalty. the european parliament made clear in this resolution its disgust at the most brutal forms of execution of this type of punishment, such as stoning. the resolution names some of the men and women who are waiting on death row in their countries, for the lights of civilization and compassion to save their lives. parliament therefore calls on the council and the commission to use all means to save them.
madam president, commissioner, following the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico, it is important that the eu ensures the protection of its coasts through its prevention and response capacity to such problems. the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and protection in the area of pollution caused by ships. in june this year i submitted in writing to commissioners öttinger, kallas and georgieva a proposal to extend the powers of the european maritime agency to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms and for preventing environmental disasters. this suggestion allows for economies of scale in terms of financial, human and technical resources. i welcome the response of the commissioners, who have shown an openness to considering the revision of the european maritime agency's regulations, extending its powers. i would again call on the european commission to look into this matter and to extend the powers of the agency in lisbon so as to ensure the effective protection of europe's coasts.
we must draw lessons from the oil spill in the gulf of mexico and the catastrophe it has caused, lessons which will certainly require greater demand and more rigorous and regular monitoring of the safety conditions of similar infrastructure in europe, but which must go far beyond that. there's a warning bell ringing that can't be ignored. the limits of the world's oil reserves are now reasonably known. the dependence of mankind on these reserves, in multiple dimensions, not just energy, is high, too high. these reserves must therefore be managed with great wisdom, which means, first of all, that they must be managed very sparingly. we have already stressed the importance of a plan for the sound and fair management of these resources, the mitigation of their progressive depletion and the controlled transition to other sources of primary energy. i am talking about the exhaustion protocol proposed in uppsala in 2002 and in lisbon in 2005 by a group of experts studying peak oil.
when we talk about preserving biodiversity, we are also talking about combating climate change, food security, public health, fighting poverty, achieving the millennium development goals, sustainable development of the planet, in other words, our collective future. the european union, as has already been said, must speak with one voice in nagoya and do everything to achieve good results. political will is needed to save the most endangered species of fauna and flora. it has also been said here by several colleagues that the costs of biodiversity loss are in the order of 50 billion euros per year, or about 1% of gross domestic product, but it has also been said, and there are studies proving that by 2050 these costs may amount to 7% of gross domestic product, but the return on investment in biodiversity conservation is 100 times higher. biodiversity is fundamental to climate change mitigation and adaptation, taking into account, for example, the role of terrestrial and marine ecosystems as important carbon sinks, and so we hope that the conference will produce good results. this is what the citizens expect, and also to be made aware of the challenges we all face.
the preservation of biodiversity is an ethical imperative and an essential condition for the future of the human species itself, which is above any economic consideration. before nagoya, the european union must learn from its failure in this area and must correct its course if it is seeking practical results rather than repeated and inconsequential declarations of intent. among other things, it will have to make a major change in its sectoral policies. the reduction in the diversity of cultivated species and varieties, the erosion of the genetic base on which food depends, the promotion of the use of agricultural varieties specific to certain regions, the combating of the homogenisation of agricultural production, intensive carrier-based models and the abandonment of small and medium-scale production resulting from current agricultural and trade policies must be stopped and reversed. these are just a few examples. biodiversity and the set of environmental balances that depend on it are a heritage of our planet, a common good that cannot under any circumstances be subject to private appropriation, a priceless common good whose use and enjoyment, in justice and equity, must be ensured for all.
i welcome this debate with the council and the commission where we can discuss the european union's plans and key strategic objectives to halt the loss of biodiversity, on the eve of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity. i hope that a strong and coherent position of the european union will be brought to this conference with ideas on the concrete measures that will be taken to ensure that the protection of biodiversity contributes to sustainable development. i remind you that conservation of biodiversity is fundamental to the quality of ecosystems, has direct effects on essential functions such as food production or water availability, prevents landslides and floods. finally, i would like the political responses to ensure the integration of biodiversity into activities in economic sectors such as agriculture, the forestry sector, the fisheries sector and the tourism sector to have the courage and the ambition to protect this invaluable but extremely fragile heritage, as is the case in my region, the azores, from other blind external interests that may threaten it.
the pressure being exerted by the commission and the european powers on the countries with the weakest economies and the highest levels of poverty is contrary to all the principles of economic and social cohesion which the belgian presidency has spoken of here in the name of the so-called social clause of the treaty of lisbon, in article 9. the truth is that the irrational criteria of the stability pact could only be exceeded if the member states were obliged to support the banks in the wake of the problems they experienced because of the toxic waste they had created. now that the banks have absorbed billions of euros in public support and have skyrocketed public debts in the most distressed countries, the pressure has returned to reduce debts and deficits without taking into account employment, social inclusion and the universal rights to education and public health, housing, wages and decent reforms. in the name of sustainability of public finances, austerity policies are being imposed in a number of countries, such as greece and portugal, increasing social injustices, increasing unemployment, poverty and social exclusion threatening 120 million people in the european union. portugal will go back into depression if the new austerity programme which the portuguese government has just announced goes ahead and so the questions remain: what kind of social europe is this? in the european year against poverty, where are the guaranteed minimum incomes that tackle poverty? where does the integration of social objectives and social sustainability in macroeconomic policies stand? where is the defence and promotion of public services? when will we have a convergent social policy and an effective assessment of the social impact of the policies of the stability pact, competition policies, the internal market, budgetary and fiscal policies and monetary policies? that is what the workers' struggles that are multiplying outside europe are aiming at.
the financial crisis has contributed to a worsening of the social situation of european citizens. recovery has been slow to take hold, with high unemployment and weak economic growth. the eu 2020 strategy aims to outline a roadmap for achieving economic growth capable of delivering more jobs and competitiveness within the union. its flagship initiatives are a way forward for us to make europe more inclusive for its citizens. the treaty of lisbon reinforces the dimension of european social policy. europe belongs to its citizens and it is part of its mission to contribute to the promotion of employment and the improvement of living and working conditions. i would stress the essential nature of the dialogue between the social partners and the role of small and mediumsized enterprises as the motor of the economy. we must realise the treaty's social objectives through the concrete proposals included in eu 2020, such as the flagship initiatives an industrial policy for the age of globalisation or the agenda for new skills and new jobs. europe must be more competitive and able to face the challenges of globalisation, while at the same time being inclusive and pursuing sustainable development that ensures social integration.
i would first like to congratulate mrs fajon on her excellent report and also congratulate mrs corazza bildt, who was the shadow rapporteur for the epp, on her work on this dossier. it has already been pointed out that in november 2009, when we approved the visa waiver for serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, we were unable to do so for albania and bosnia simply because these countries did not meet the criteria. indeed, visa liberalisation for access to the schengen area is subject to a rigorous assessment on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the fulfilment of criteria in terms of strengthening the rule of law, public order and security, in particular the fight against organised crime and corruption, illegal immigration, as well as the external reasons of the european union with third countries, while taking into account the implications of regional coherence and reciprocity. the commission proposal allows the assessment reports to show that these two countries now meet most of the criteria for being moved from annex i (the so-called negative list) to annex ii (the so-called positive list). there is only a very limited number of criteria which are still being fulfilled and whose implementation is being monitored by the commission and which is expected to be completed at any time. the european parliament and the council have committed themselves to taking a decision as soon as possible, once it is confirmed that all these criteria have been met. we are honouring that commitment at the moment and we hope that the council will do the same. as mrs corazza bildt has already said, it is time to give a signal, to end the isolation. let us hope that these two countries can benefit from this exemption during the christmas period. it would strengthen political and economic cooperation with the region and help to put an end to the feeling of isolation of these people.
in writing. strong and stable financial institutions are key to sustainable capital markets, access to credit, competitiveness and economic and financial stability. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, particularly because it contains fundamental measures which i have put forward in the light of the situation of national financial institutions. i refer in particular to the need for the basel committee and the commission to clarify the treatment of financial participation arrangements, the relevance of the definition of criteria for high quality liquid assets in line with the current european central bank definition of assets eligible for monetary policy operations (repurchase facility) and the importance of the commission's inclusion of all euro area sovereign debt in the category of high quality liquid assets, irrespective of its specific rating, in order to limit the disproportionate impact of the practices of credit rating agencies.
i should like to highlight an event which took place yesterday in portugal and which is of the greatest importance for the country, for europe and for the future of mankind. the champalimaud foundation has opened a research centre in the field of cancer and neuroscience. mr champalimaud was an entrepreneur who bequeathed a third of his personal fortune, worth 500 million euros, to scientific research in these areas. i welcome the president of the champalimaud foundation, dr leonor beleza, who has set high standards for combining excellence in scientific research with clinical practice. i am sure that the objective of placing portugal and europe at the top of the scientific research field will be fully achieved. the champalimaud foundation will attract world-renowned scientists to portugal and europe who, from the estuary of the tagus, will open a new phase in portuguese and european scientific research, introducing new worlds to the world.
in writing. the inability of african countries - often fragile countries, newly emerging from conflict situations or lacking sufficiently strong institutions or adequate resources - to implement effective public health policies, including ensuring access to adequate health services, is a major challenge and a global responsibility. it is essential that there is an eu vision for global health, with guiding principles that should be applied to all relevant strategic sectors. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's health policy and will continue to support the implementation of the eu's health policy. it is essential that eu member states ensure that their migration policies do not undermine the availability of health professionals in third countries. i call for the commitments made in the eu action strategy on healthcare shortages in developing countries to be implemented, and for the eu to facilitate circular migration as a means of mitigating brain drain from countries in difficulty.
in writing. the implementation of the universal right to health is unfortunately still a long way off. millions of people still lack any access to basic health care, life expectancy in many countries remains shockingly low, millions of children continue to die from preventable and curable diseases. this situation is all the more serious since its end or its persistence depends on political decisions. the interests of the large economic and financial groups have prevailed in these decisions; the multinational pharmaceutical companies continue to prevent the cheapest production of medicines that could save the lives of millions of people; the international financial institutions continue to impose so-called structural adjustments, by maintaining the odious external debt of the third world countries, by imposing cuts and privatizations in the health sector, when the deficits are already enormous. a real contribution to the improvement of the health systems of these countries would require, immediately, the rejection of the so-called economic partnership agreements (the implementation of which, in the way the eu seeks to impose them, will aggravate relations of dependence and further condition the priorities of these countries), the end of their external debt and a genuine policy of cooperation and development aid.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, after four consecutive years of falling unemployment rates from 2004 to 2008, the current economic crisis has reversed much of the progress made. unemployment rates in the european union have risen enormously, for example in portugal we have reached the record unfortunately of an unemployment rate of 11%. another negative phenomenon is youth unemployment in the european union. europe is thus going through a period of transformation and faces enormous challenges. the crisis has reversed years of economic and social progress and exposed the fragility of the economies of its member states and, consequently, of the european union itself. strategy 2020 points the way forward. the european union should intensify all its efforts to promote employment and social inclusion as an integral part of its strategy to tackle the economic and social crisis. the resolution on the future of the social fund under discussion today is therefore welcomed, as the fund plays a crucial role in achieving the objectives of strategy 2020. the fund is the main financial instrument enabling the european union to achieve the strategic objectives of its employment policy by improving the levels of education and skills of its citizens. the esf should be strengthened as the main driver of the 2020 strategy and should be used by member states to invest in re-skilling, employment, training and retraining. finally, i would like to stress that the reform of the european social fund, to be carried out in conjunction with the reform of the other structural funds, should facilitate and simplify its management and increase transparency, as well as focus the funds on achieving results and achieving objectives that are actually felt by citizens in their daily lives.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy, given its objectives, clearly has a european added value. it demonstrates european solidarity by reducing regional disparities and contributing to economic, social and territorial cohesion, and it must therefore have the necessary budgetary resources. cohesion policy must also be sufficiently flexible to take account of regional specificities, particularly in the less developed regions, and gdp must remain the main criterion for determining eligibility. the eafrd, which supports rural development, should be coordinated with cohesion policy funds in order to increase efficiency and achieve maximum results. i also call on the commission to evaluate the implementation of the cohesion policy funds so that the necessary measures are taken urgently to improve the implementation rates of the respective funds.
cohesion policies are no longer just an instrument of european construction, but are the effective implementation and dynamic witness of the european project itself as a community of citizens who share the values of social justice and solidarity. in this context, it is understandable that there is an insistence on all regions being included in cohesion policies and that the eligibility criteria, which have so far been concentrated on gdp per capita, be broadened in the interests of greater fairness. but we must never lose sight of the first and ultimate aim of cohesion policies: to promote equal living standards for all european citizens, which always requires increased attention to the poorest regions, such as some of the outermost regions, which are in fact lacking in specific measures.
the european social fund is probably the most structural instrument of cohesion. it must therefore be closely linked to the regional development fund. a local approach to the issues to be solved is essential, i.e. a global vision for local action. local and regional authorities are the best placed to know their realities, their investment needs in job creation and the measures best suited to promoting employment in their regions. we must take account of the positive experiences of the regions. in the azores, an outermost region where unemployment usually reaches record levels, the unemployment rate is 6.5%, the lowest in portugal. this is largely due to the forward planning strategy used for employment, defining what factors to act on, how to achieve the desired future, and also to the use of the european social fund as an operational instrument of this strategy, acting on education, training and employment promotion. the horizontality of cohesion policy is the only way to ensure the success of strategy 2020.
mr president, commissioner, cohesion policy is the great pillar of european solidarity. cohesion is the means by which the aim of reducing disparities between regions is achieved and the harmonious development of the european union as a whole is encouraged. in the next period from 2014 to 2020, we must define a framework capable of enhancing the effectiveness of regional policy. governance at the various levels should be encouraged through greater involvement and participation of regional and local authorities, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and as provided for in the new lisbon treaty. the special situation of the outermost regions should not be overlooked. this group of regions faces very important challenges and should continue to benefit in future from specific provisions in the implementation of european policies. gdp should remain the main eligibility criterion, but we should take into account other indicators which can provide a more complete picture of the regional reality.
in writing. − third-country nationals legally resident in a country of the union and whose lives involve a relationship with the legal system of another member state are often in situations of unprotectedness or conflict of rights which it is urgent to prevent. equity in the treatment of such citizens implies that they are guaranteed rights and duties equivalent to those of citizens of the countries of the european union to the extent that is reasonable. in particular, as regards social benefits, this equivalence can be largely justified and coordination between legal systems a measure of justice.
in writing. − the resolution aims to ensure that third-country nationals who are legally resident in the territory of a member state and who are in a crossborder situation involving at least two member states are subject to the same coordination rules on social security rights as eu nationals under the revised rules now enshrined in regulation (ec) no 883/2004 and its implementing regulation (regulation (ec) no 987/2009). when the commission proposal was first introduced, the european parliament was consulted and agreed to two amendments, replacing references to the charter of fundamental rights and also pointing to a high standard of social protection as an objective of the european union, enshrined in the current regulation (ec) no 859/2003. i voted in favour of this resolution in favour of the adoption of the new regulation to ensure equal treatment of legally resident third country nationals in the field of social security.
in writing. − all third-country nationals living in the eu and in a legal situation should not be subject to any discrimination and should have access to social security, if necessary, without conflicts between the different legal systems of the member states. that is why it is important that this directive be adopted.
in writing. - support the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors, highlighting his skills in public administration, international taxation and economic sciences, as well as his extensive experience in the supervision, control and audit of public accounts and the fight against fraud, not only at national level but also in the european context. from his hearing and from his performance of his duties, i would like to highlight the appreciation and recognition of the importance of computerization and automation of services, as well as the decentralization of procedures, for the efficiency, transparency and reliability of information and public institutions.
in writing. − the appointment of gijs m. de vries to the court of auditors will certainly represent an added value for the institution, particularly in terms of the guarantees for institutional cooperation within the european union, and also by using the resources of the supervisory bodies of the member states. from his experience in the netherlands court of auditors, in its national government and in the european parliament, i would like to highlight his commitment to the monitoring of the legality of public procurement and his determination to combat fraud and corruption, as well as the guarantees of accountability, independence and competence in the court of auditors' decision-making processes.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors in order to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that spain has submitted requests for assistance in respect of 703 redundancies in 82 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 14 (clothing industry) in the nuts ii region of galicia, i voted in favour of the resolution in that i agree with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i agree that, in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it should be ensured that the egf individually supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors.
in writing. 702 unemployment cases in 82 textile companies justify the request by the spanish authorities to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the increase in unemployment in the galician textile and clothing sector contributes to increasing the external perception of the fragility of all its european counterparts (including my own country, which has been so penalized) in the face of exposure to international competition, in particular that in which production costs are lower such as that from developing countries. the international crisis that is now being felt has contributed to aggravating this state of affairs. i hope that the unemployed workers will soon be able to resume their working lives.
in writing. - in view of the impact of the economic and financial crisis on the labour market, i stress the importance of the proper implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which unfortunately shows extremely low rates of utilisation. of the €500 million made available through the egf this year, only 11% of this money was requested to finance schemes to support workers made redundant. it is a worrying and incomprehensible situation in the face of high unemployment rates. i would also like to point out that, after a series of warnings and denunciations, an alternative source of payment appropriations to the european social fund has been found. in view of the effects of this crisis, which are particularly felt in the textile sector, i would stress the relevance of this plan of eur 1 844 700 to support 703 workers made redundant by 82 companies in the textile sector in galicia. in contrast to this initiative by the spanish government, i cannot but regret the absence of any such intervention by the portuguese government for the districts of braga and viana do castelo, a region bordering galicia which has high unemployment rates due to successive closures of businesses.
in writing. - three more requests to mobilise the solidarity fund, corresponding to the closure of as many other factories in europe, including one in the textile sector in galicia, spain. in all, that's another couple of hundred workers thrown out of work. it is worth recalling here once again that this is a sector which is also in serious crisis in portugal, suffering particularly severely from the effects of the liberalization of world trade, without the necessary safeguard measures having been taken. the effects of this could now be aggravated by the decision to deepen the liberalization measures for asian textiles, under the pretext of humanitarian aid to pakistan, but in reality corresponding to the wishes of the major importers in the eu. each new request for the fund to be mobilised gives renewed urgency to the measures we have been advocating, namely the effective fight against unemployment, the stimulation of economic activity, the eradication of precariousness and the reduction of working hours without reduction of wages. the measures also go beyond the fight against the relocation of companies and, taken together, impose a clear break with the neoliberal policies that are causing the visible economic and social disaster in the eu countries.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and it is now necessary to provide this aid to 703 workers, by way of redundancy in 82 enterprises in the region of galicia, in the clothing industry. hence my vote.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that denmark has submitted requests for assistance in respect of 1443 redundancies in three danfoss group companies operating in nace rev. 2 divisions 27 and 28 in the nuts ii region of syddanmark, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i agree that the functioning and added value of the egf should be assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and of several other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, as part of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013.
in writing. - complementary support for displaced workers is also necessary in a country that few would imagine to be subject to such trials and more able to compete in the global market than most other member states of the european union. however, even denmark is now suffering from the effects of globalisation, and this affects sectors such as the manufacture of electrical equipment, machinery and equipment which we might think are more immune to competition. this worrying circumstance makes us aware of the seriousness of the economic crisis in which we find ourselves and of the need to look for ever more effective and creative ways of increasing europe's competitiveness and, at the same time, of contributing to the reintegration of workers affected by unemployment into working life. the egf is one such mechanism.
in writing. − i would stress the potential contribution of this assistance plan financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund to the reintegration and social rehabilitation of displaced workers, in a particularly dramatic case such as the closure of three danfoss group companies, all located in the region of syddanmark, denmark, in a three-month period in 2009, involving 1443 workers, in a sector particularly affected by this crisis such as the manufacture of machinery and electrical equipment. i would like to reiterate the warning about the extremely low utilization rates of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which unfortunately reveal themselves in the face of high unemployment rates in europe. of the €500 million made available through the egf this year, only 11% of this money was requested to finance schemes to support workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. i am concerned, however, that after a series of warnings and denunciations, an alternative source of payment appropriations to the european social fund has been found.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and is now to be used to support 1443 redundancies in three danfoss group companies operating in nace rev. 2 divisions 27 and 28 in the nuts ii region of syddanmark. hence my vote.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that denmark has submitted requests for assistance in respect of 198 redundancies in the electromechanical company linak in the nuts ii region of syddanmark, i voted in favour of the resolution in that i agree with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, includes clear and detailed information on the application, analyses the eligibility criteria and explains the reasons which led to its approval, in line with the requests made by parliament.
in writing. - another danish mechatronics company, linak, has been hit by the effects of globalisation. the main victims of this are the low-skilled workers in a particularly depressed region, which is of particular concern to policy-makers. in this and other cases, older workers are of particular concern and should be entitled to support measures specifically targeted at them.
in writing. - having regard to the impact of the current economic and financial crisis on the labour market, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of eur 1 213 508 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for a plan to support the reintegration into the labour market of 198 people made redundant by the electrical equipment manufacturing company linak a/s in the region of syddanmark, denmark. i would like to reiterate the warning about the extremely low rates of egf utilisation, despite the high unemployment rates in europe. i reiterate the need for the egf to be financed from its own financial resources, and for this purpose a separate budget line has been set up.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and now needs to be used to support 198 redundancies at the electromechanical company linak in the nuts ii region of south denmark. hence my vote.
in writing. − in view of the irregularities detected and the inability of the academy to account to parliament for its budgetary and financial situation, i support the rapporteur in her decision to refuse to give the director of the european police academy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2008.
in writing. − the european police college has had difficulty in meeting the standards of good administration that any regulatory agency must meet. since 2006, repeated audits have identified problems with respect to the academy's compliance with the financial regulation, the staff regulations and the accounting system, as well as shortcomings in the management of the budget, human resources, public procurement procedures and the rules applicable to expenditure for the organisation of courses. according to the resolution, improvements in the academy can only be expected in 2014, when its multiannual plan will have been fully implemented. i do not agree that the academy needs at least nine years (2006-2014) to reach the acceptable level of good administration that is expected of a regulatory agency.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits known to us, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives proposed. however, according to the rapporteur, this is not the case with the european police college, since there are several irregularities and an inability to present its accounts, hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative proposal because i recognise the importance of allowing albania and bosnia and herzegovina to move within the european union through a visa-free regime, with effect from this year. this is a process which follows on from what has recently happened with serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i believe that this vote represents an important step towards european integration and political and economic cooperation with this region, although it is still important to direct efforts to move forward with the process of visa liberalisation in kosovo, which is the only area in the western balkans where there is no plan to open negotiations.
in writing. - i am very pleased to vote in favour of the european union's recognition that the conditions for visa liberalization for new states on our continent, in this case bosnia-herzegovina and albania, have been met. but i regret that the european union is not as open to other countries, in particular ukraine and croatia, and that the countries which have emerged and acquired their sovereignty and independence from the ussr do not deserve, and for that reason alone (they are former soviet republics), the same recognition!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fajon report, as the outcome of the missions and evaluation reports showed that progress had been made in meeting the requirements for albania and bosnia and herzegovina to be included in the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for access to the schengen area.
in writing. - those who remember the tensions and conflicts that have plagued the western balkans cannot help but feel that a long way has already been travelled towards their pacification and stabilisation. the union naturally wanted to help to reduce the barriers which separate it from most of the balkan states and to allow its citizens to enter the union without a visa. i am in principle in favour of the abolition of barriers to the movement of people and therefore support the removal of these barriers. i also believe that this facilitation of the movement of balkan citizens within the european territory must be accompanied by improved crossborder cooperation and a more fruitful exchange of information with their countries of origin in order to cope with the expansion of the activities of the criminal networks originating from them.
in writing. - i strongly support the objective of abolishing the visa regime for all western balkan countries. the abolition of visas for citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia in december 2009 was an important step towards their european integration. the visa-free regime is of great importance in people's lives, as it strengthens relations between peoples and allows the principle of free movement to be realised as one of the fundamental rights of europe. ensuring that the european union will implement the visa-free regime for both countries, and in particular for bosnia and herzegovina, in the very near future - early autumn 2010 - will reduce the risk of further political and ethnic instability, strengthen political and economic cooperation in the region and increase popular support for the eu and the prospects for european integration, broaden the horizons of the populations and contain extremist and anti-european forces. i voted in favour of this resolution so that bosnia and herzegovina and albania benefit from the visa-free regime as soon as possible.
in writing. − we are in favour of visa-free travel as soon as possible for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and albania, countries which were excluded from this possibility in 2009 when the visa-free regime for all western balkan countries was abolished. this decision 'awards' the capacity of these countries to 'carry out the necessary reforms'. in this way, they say, we are opening the "doors" to those who do everything "to please us". the question is: what is the price that the people of these countries are paying for this? those who today say they are rewarding the balkan countries are the same people who yesterday did everything to destroy yugoslavia and dismantle the achievements of its peoples. the great powers of the eu and nato have their hands stained by the crimes they committed there, in an operation that succeeded in creating hatred and war between peoples who had long ago decided to unite their wills in building their state. we therefore do not support the dismantling of what is left of yugoslavia, fuelled by those who want to take over its wealth, exploit its people, exploit its geostrategic location, the old dream of the great capital of the eu. it is already being announced that the next to be included in the regime will be kosovo, the eu and nato protectorate in the region.
in writing. − the eu has always been concerned that its citizens should be able to move freely between the member states. gradually, this facility was extended to third countries, as several citizens of non-eu countries began to be able to travel to the eu area without a visa. the aim of this report is to abolish visas for citizens of albania and bosnia herzegovina, following the example of other western balkan countries, notably the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. the progress these two countries have made in recent months is leading the eu to lift entry visas for their citizens, which will help reduce the risk of further political and ethnic instability, strengthen political and economic cooperation in the region, increase popular support for the eu and prospects for european integration, broaden the horizons of the populations and contain extremist and anti-european forces. hence my vote.
in writing. − the countries of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia have recently been included in the positive list of this regulation and their citizens are therefore exempt from the visa requirement to enter the territory of the european union. the states of albania and bosnia and herzegovina have also made progress towards, once the required criteria for exemption have been verified, becoming exempted and leaving the negative list. it is essential to decide on the fundamental right of a future community citizen to travel within the european union. the implementation of this liberalisation also requires a stronger fight against organised crime in both countries, as well as the development of a strategy to support the integration of returnees in the case of albania and the harmonisation of criminal laws in accordance with the federal criminal code in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. the possibility of visa-free travel in the near future will help to strengthen political and economic cooperation and reduce the risk of tensions in the region. in addition, the support of the european union will certainly help to broaden the horizons of citizens. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the document.
in writing. − despite the efforts of the united nations mission in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and the extremely difficult work of humanitarian organisations, human rights violations continue to persist. the situation is alarming, with mass violations of civilians by members of armed groups, unacceptable suffering, poverty, displacement of people and the degradation of the situation in refugee camps, as well as the forced recruitment of civilians and child soldiers. the congolese army still lacks sufficient human, technical and financial resources to carry out its mission. this resolution reinforces the priority of training and adequate salaries to reform the congolese army and improve its discipline. it also stressed the need to redouble efforts to put an end to the activities of armed groups and to hold those responsible for human rights violations to account. it also stressed the urgency of developing close cooperation between the government of the drc and the international community, taking into account the participation of women in the resolution of the conflict. the dialogue with a view to the peace process must be resumed immediately, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the growth of violence against local populations and large-scale acts of destruction, such as the burning of houses, schools, churches or even entire villages, as has happened in the democratic republic of congo, must be stopped. rape and other forms of sexual violence against women and children (about 14 rapes a day, according to unhcr data) have been used as weapons of war. we cannot allow a general feeling of impunity to develop for the commission of crimes which constitute very serious violations of fundamental rights. it is essential that the perpetrators of these crimes be brought to justice and convicted of war crimes and crimes against humanity. i reiterate the call made to the united nations and the congolese government to open investigations. i hope that the un security council will take urgent action to prevent further attacks on the civilian population and to provide all the necessary assistance to the victims. i welcome the adoption of the american law on the 'ministry of conflict' and hope that the european union can take similar legislative initiatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution condemning violence against women and children in the democratic republic of congo. it is urgent to step up the fight against impunity and to put an immediate end to the violence and human rights violations in that country.
in writing. the democratic republic of congo has experienced profound instability due to the artificiality of its borders and internal animosities. the proliferation of belligerent movements and the atrocities committed by them are the saddest pages in the history of the african continent. in fact, the list of tragedies and attacks on human rights and justice is growing too fast for even the best informed to keep up with. the international community has recently been alerted to a wave of mass rapes which deserve our disgust, condemnation and the strongest repudiation. the use of this kind of violence as a weapon of war, which is unfortunately not new, should nevertheless be condemned unreservedly and those responsible, both materially and morally, should be prosecuted. the congo lacks peace and stability, but this will not be achieved without the unequivocal identification and exemplary punishment of all the perpetrators of the most gross violations of human rights who have been enjoying scandalous impunity.
in writing. atul khare, un under-secretary-general for peacekeeping operations, informed the un security council that between 30 july and 4 august, more than 500 people were victims of collective violations in north kivu province by the democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda (fdlr), a hutu rebel group, and the mai mai militia. i strongly condemn the collective violations, as well as other human rights violations, and welcome the call on the united nations and the government of the drc to conduct a full and impartial investigation into all incidents and to ensure that those responsible for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are held accountable for their actions and prosecuted in accordance with international law.
in writing. - we strongly condemn the violations of women and children and all human rights violations in the drc. the end of these acts will only be possible with the end of the foreign military presence and external interference, which are the factors fuelling the conflict. the un and eu missions have already proven that they are not the solution, they are part of the problem. our group has proposed 'the termination of eupol and eusec missions in the drc, in recognition of their negative contribution to the escalation of violence and the situation in the country by training security forces who commit crimes against the civilian population'. the majority of meps rejected this proposal, siding with those who want to maintain the conflict and benefit from it. peace will only be achieved through a political agreement between the various actors involved, both internal and external. the countries of the region, in particular rwanda and uganda, which are violating the sovereignty and independence of the drc and are an active party to the conflict. but above all, the us and the eu, the main beneficiaries of a war economy that is sustained by the sale of minerals important to produce the components of computers and mobile phones of american and european companies.
in writing. the eu cannot be indifferent to the various armed conflicts that exist somewhat all over the world. the violence in the democratic republic of congo is a conflict that has dragged on for several years and has already caused millions of deaths, displacement and displaced persons. it is therefore very important to call on all the parties to the conflict to cease hostilities so that the people of these regions can return to live in peace. it is very important that we continue to support the un missions on the ground in order to alleviate the suffering of the entire population, but with a primary concern for the elderly, women and children.
in writing. − in a world where 43 countries still retain the death penalty and where children are forced to watch public executions, europe must continue to call for an end to this practice, which constitutes a cruel and unacceptable violation of the right to life. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu should use diplomatic instruments to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty, by pressing government authorities to adopt a moratorium on executions with a view to its complete abolition. the resolution calls on the council and the commission to provide guidelines for a comprehensive european policy to be applied to the dozens of european citizens sentenced to death in third countries, as regards the provision of information and legal assistance, which i consider equally important. i also recognize the importance of the adoption of the world day against the death penalty and the european day against the death penalty.
in writing. - the value of life and the multiplication of judicial errors which history has bequeathed to us are reasons enough to oppose the death penalty. the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is a priority for the eu. the 10th of october has been designated as the european day against the death penalty. we are firmly committed to contributing to its global abolition and to the universal acceptance of this principle. according to amnesty international, there are still 58 countries in the world that have not abolished it, and about 18 carried out executions in 2009, with china alone executing more people than all other countries combined. the only country in europe that still applies the death penalty is belarus. the european parliament was the first european institution to launch this campaign in the early 1980s, and the eu is now the main institutional actor in the fight against the death penalty, as well as the main funder of efforts to do so. we are fighting for the adoption of moratoriums on its application until the death penalty is finally abolished.
in writing. - as a national of one of the first countries in the world to abolish the death penalty, portugal in 1867, i consider the death penalty an inhuman punishment and the most extreme denial of human rights. that is why i am pleased to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. the promotion of human dignity and, consequently, the fight for the abolition of the death penalty are, and must remain, among the objectives of the european union's human rights policy. in the name of a comprehensive and effective european policy on the death penalty, the union, through its institutions and in particular through the high representative, must speak with one voice. the establishment of a worldwide moratorium on the use and imposition of the death penalty in all regions of the world is not only a fundamental step towards the abolition of the death penalty in the world, it is above all a vital step towards a more dignified humanity!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu should use all the diplomatic and cooperation-supporting instruments at its disposal to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty. portugal is an example to follow in this area, as it was the first european state to provide for the abolition of the death penalty in its constitutional law, more than 140 years ago. unfortunately, this is not the reality in more than 40 countries around the world, where violations of the right to life enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights persist.
in writing. − the death penalty constitutes an unacceptable violation of the inherent dignity of every human being and the inalienable and unrepeatable value of every life. it therefore deserves our strong condemnation and the unreserved commitment of all to eradicate it. i hope that more countries will join the group of countries which have finally abandoned this practice. regardless of the seriousness of the concrete individual actions which, in the abstract, could motivate and even justify such a sentence, i consider that the abolition of the death penalty constitutes a huge civilizational advance and a distinctive feature of penal systems which, like those of the member states of the union, strive to separate justice from revenge. it is urgent to maintain this non-vengeful disposition and to ensure that even the worst of criminals should be treated with dignity even when they do not deserve it. in fact, the mere application of the death penalty would not live up to our common heritage of respect for human life, which is so often forgotten by our policy makers. at this moment my thoughts also turn to all those who are not even guaranteed a fair trial and who are killed, either randomly or deliberately, in the most barbaric ways in the most unforgiving of contexts.
in writing. − the eu has been the main institutional actor in the fight against the death penalty in the world over the past few years, and this fight has been a priority in its external human rights policy. while it is true that there are still more than 40 countries worldwide that practice the death penalty and that one of these countries, belarus, is in europe, it is necessary to continue to combine all efforts to make the abolition of the death penalty worldwide a reality, since it is the most cruel, inhuman and degrading of punishments and constitutes a violation of the right to life enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. hence my vote.
in writing. - the days we dedicate to various social causes are always an invitation to reflect and debate on the privileged topic and, above all, a repeated call for attention to a near change in behaviour with a view to adhering to new values or a new interpretation of ancestral values, which is decisive for the construction of the society in which we want to live. the death penalty is one of the most heinous acts of legalization which i believe cannot be justified by any other form of prior action. even murder does not justify the death penalty for the murderer, which is to punish a criminal act by an identical act which, by court order, becomes legal from a legal point of view, but not legitimate from an ethical point of view. in this context, i warmly welcome the resolution for the establishment of a world day against the death penalty in the hope that this may constitute another important step towards its effective abolition throughout the world.
in writing. − it is important that the eu ensures the protection of its coasts through its prevention and response capacity to such problems. the legislation in force must also improve safety in oil exploration and extraction. the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides support and technical assistance to the european commission and the member states in the development and implementation of community legislation on maritime safety and security, as well as in the area of pollution caused by ships. in june this year i put in writing to commissioners oettinger, kallas and georgieva the suggestion that the european maritime agency's remit be extended to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms in the north sea, the black sea and the mediterranean and to be responsible for preventing environmental disasters linked to oil exploration. this suggestion allows for economies of scale in terms of financial, human and technical resources. i welcome the response of the commissioners, who have shown an openness to revising the regulation of the european maritime agency, and i call on the ec to make the necessary efforts to achieve this objective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on 'eu action on oil exploration and extraction in europe', as i considered it necessary to strengthen safety and working conditions on offshore oil platforms in the european union in order to prevent environmental disasters such as those in the gulf of mexico.
in writing. - given the importance of oil extraction to the countries that extract it and the dangers involved (as can be seen from the terrible consequences of oil spill accidents), it is essential that the union creates the conditions for the safest possible oil exploitation. to this end, it is important that there is adequate legislation with the basic safety standards for offshore oil and gas production, ensuring the safety of their extraction and supply in the eu. as a portuguese, i cannot fail to recall in this connection the prestige disaster which deeply affected the galician coast, with consequences that extended beyond the portuguese and french coasts, and i would point out that the measures now proposed should not be limited to oil exploration and extraction but also to its transport and supply, knowing that oil tanker disasters are, unfortunately, more frequent than we would like and that it is also important to review safety standards in order to reduce the likelihood of such disasters occurring.
in writing. − the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico was a wake-up call for the eu and its member states to urgently examine all aspects of oil exploration and extraction in the european union and to take all necessary measures to ensure that such an environmental catastrophe does not occur in our waters. it is therefore necessary and urgent to adopt a common european, cross-border system for oil spill prevention and response. i would stress the request for a report from the commission assessing the level of environmental pollution and the biological state of the gulf of mexico, and for a review of the eu's ability to respond immediately to accidents involving offshore installations, and for the development of a european action plan in cooperation with the member states. i welcome the call for legislation to ensure that high safety standards are applied to all oil rigs and oil exploration operations in the eu, but i disagree with the imposition of a moratorium on any new oil drilling in deep water in the eu until such standards are ensured throughout the eu because of the disproportionate impact this measure could have on the industry.
in writing. the resolution is generally positive, warning of the need to prevent and ensure the necessary support in the event of environmental disasters caused by oil spills. ensuring the independence and quality of environmental impact assessments and accountability assessments is an important aspect of ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment, preventing potentially hazardous activities on the seabed from causing damage to the marine and coastal environment, ensuring the protection of biodiversity and ensuring that coastal populations can thrive in their local farming and fishing activities. we cannot, however, fail to criticize the fact that in a resolution on this subject the problem of the physical limits of oil reserves, the very high and worrying dependence of mankind on this primary source of energy, the need for a fair and careful management of existing reserves and the need to look for alternative sources of energy supply are completely forgotten.
in writing. - the various accidents in the field of oil exploration and extraction over the years have been warning of the dangers of this activity, but it was the recent and very serious accident in the gulf of mexico that forced new and different measures to be taken to avoid similar situations in the future, since they threaten the environmental balance and biodiversity of entire regions with the damage, for everyone, that ensues. the eu must therefore take the necessary measures to ensure that oil exploration and extraction in europe is carried out in the best possible safety conditions, thus avoiding future environmental and human catastrophes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, following the debate with the council and the commission, where we discussed the european union's plans and main strategic objectives to halt the loss of biodiversity, on the eve of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity. i therefore hope that a strong and coherent position from the european union will be brought to this conference with ideas on the concrete measures that will be taken to ensure that the protection of biodiversity contributes to sustainable development. i remind you that conservation of biodiversity is fundamental to the quality of ecosystems, has direct effects on essential functions such as food production or water availability, prevents landslides and floods. i would also like the political responses to ensure the integration of biodiversity into activities in economic sectors such as agriculture, the forestry sector, the fisheries sector and the tourism sector to have the courage and the ambition to protect this invaluable but extremely fragile heritage, as is the case in my region, the azores, from other blind external interests that may threaten it.
in writing. − in the year 2010, proclaimed by the united nations as the international year of biodiversity, and in the face of the failure to meet the global target of significantly reducing the rate of biodiversity loss by 2010 and the european target of halting biodiversity loss, the resolution on the eu's strategic objectives for cop 10 of the convention on biological diversity in nagoya is of particular importance. the preservation of biodiversity, as well as the sustainable use and equitable sharing of benefits arising from genetic resources, should continue to be advocated, which i believe is reflected in this resolution. the commission and the member states must speak with one voice at cop 10 and its internal decision-making procedures must be speeded up. in particular, it is important to strengthen diplomatic efforts with third countries. finally, i believe it is essential to integrate the environmental factor into relations between the commission and the member states with third countries, stressing the importance of pursuing an integrated approach and an ecological diplomacy.
in writing. − in a matter as sensitive as it is essential, the preservation of biological diversity, the european and world natural heritage, it is important that the member states and the commission agree on the position to be taken by the european union at cop10. i therefore welcome this motion for a resolution. the complexity of biodiversity conservation requires multiple mechanisms, solutions and efforts. i therefore believe that the promotion of synergies between the various world organizations, member states and ngos will make it possible to develop instruments for safeguarding biodiversity within the framework of environmental conservation policies, maximising this objective. finally, i would like to stress the need to signal to the market the economic benefits of its intervention in the preservation of biodiversity, as well as the inclusion of environmental issues in the agenda of the member states and the commission in its relations with third countries, also known as ecological diplomacy.
in writing. - as i have already had the opportunity to say about the report by mrs esther de lange, voted at the last plenary session, 'i agree (...) with the need for the eu as a whole, and paying particular attention to all the areas covered by community policies, to find a sustainable strategy for the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems. i believe that this is particularly relevant in the area of agriculture and fisheries, which is why i am following the reforms being prepared in the cfp and the cap with particular attention, since the proper and sustainable preservation of biodiversity, while essential and desirable, cannot be a brake on the sustainability and development of agricultural and fisheries activities.'
in writing. the united nations has proclaimed 2010 as the international year of biodiversity. unfortunately, the eu will not meet its biodiversity target for 2010. the loss of biodiversity is continuing at an alarming rate. the rate of loss is estimated to accelerate to a value ten times higher by 2050. this loss of biodiversity is unacceptable, not only from an ethical point of view but also from an ecological and economic perspective, since we are depriving future generations of enjoying the benefits of a healthy biodiversity. the commission and the member states need to speak with one voice and to increase the speed and efficiency of their internal decision-making procedures in order to be able to reach a rapid consensus on an internal eu position at cop 10, and to devote more resources and time to their diplomatic efforts with third countries.
in writing. - this resolution contains positive and important points, others are ambiguous and unclear and others are still negative and even worrying. we support the concern expressed about the failure to meet eu and global targets for a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss. we value aspects such as sharing the benefits of genetic resources, rejecting patents on life and life processes, protecting traditional knowledge and practices of indigenous peoples, linking genetic diversity to global food security, referring to the impacts of biofuels and drawing attention to the problem of exotic species. but we cannot but reject and strongly criticise the intention to move towards new forms of private appropriation of nature and its resources, such as the introduction of forms of 'payment for ecosystem services' - which is more than once advocated in the resolution. the report also mentions the ambiguous and unclear aspects, such as the call for 'the values of biodiversity and the opportunities arising from its preservation and sustainable use to be integrated into national accounts'.
in writing. - the rapid rate of man-made biodiversity loss is worrying. biodiversity should be seen as the most reliable barometer of the state of the environment. the eu is therefore faced with alarming figures of biodiversity loss, with 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 45% of butterflies, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of freshwater fish threatened with extinction, and i consider the legislation now in place on the protection of biodiversity, and even its reinforcement, to be fundamental and essential. so, with regard to biodiversity, we have to be ambitious to achieve the strategic objectives for 2020. hence my vote.
in writing. − biodiversity is a rich heritage that we have received from past generations and that we have a duty to pass on to future generations. beyond the whole anthropological perspective, it is also important to recognise the intrinsic value of this biological diversity. today, one in five species is threatened with extinction, a frightening figure which requires us to take proportionate action to defend and protect biodiversity. in this context, i welcome this resolution which is aimed at promoting the effective and decisive implementation of the previously set target for 2010 of a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss and which systematises the different aspects of urgent action to protect biodiversity by setting new targets for 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree that the issue of financial institutions that are too big to fail should be taken into account, and that capital requirements and countercyclical capital buffers should be proportionate to the size, level of risk and business model of a financial institution. i call for an in-depth study of capital instruments before and after the crisis to assess the importance of specific capital instruments and their relevance in a crisis situation. the future european banking authority should play a leading role in the definition and implementation of measures relating to capital requirements and countercyclical capital buffer rules at eu level.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the majority of the measures proposed in this report. countercyclical regulation requires harmonised criteria to ensure comprehensive and scrupulous oversight of financial markets and the market environment by supervisors, including, inter alia, the exchange of all information, the synchronisation of regulatory measures and the real-time monitoring of exposures and risks, including the requirement for audit trails on all financial market transactions. the development of high-quality liquidity standards is therefore an essential element of the crisis response, but they should be sufficiently differentiated to take account of the specificities of banks' business models and their risk profile. in this regard, the future european banking authority should play a leading role in the definition and implementation of measures related to capital requirements and countercyclical capital buffer rules at eu level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the supervision and regulation of financial market players is essential to safeguard the interests of citizens and the financial and economic stability necessary for development and progress. in addition, the crisis we are experiencing today has shown that the own funds of banks were manifestly insufficient in terms of solvency and liquidity. the capital requirements and countercyclical capital buffers shall be proportionate to the size, risk level and business model of a financial institution. i would also like to stress the call and the warning to the basle committee on the importance of ensuring the necessary adjustments in the regulatory framework so that the european economy and the european banking sector, which are characterised by strong interdependence, are not harmed and placed at a competitive disadvantage in the context of the global market.
in writing. - the global financial crisis, which continues to cause problems in the economies of all countries, has confirmed that a strong banking sector is of paramount importance to avoid similar situations in the future. the basel ii package and the revision of the capital requirements directive will help to ensure that we have a strong banking industry which will be able to withstand any future crises similar to those experienced in the recent past. the report aims to improve the quality of the capital base and to extend and strengthen the own funds requirements for covering risks (such as counterparty credit risk arising from credit derivatives, repurchase agreements, etc.). it is also intended to introduce a leverage ratio to curb excessive leverage in the banking system and other additional countercyclical measures such as the constitution of capital buffers in times of favorable economic conditions. last but not least, global standards for liquidity management are proposed. hence my vote.
in writing. - the basle committee and the commission should clarify the treatment of reciprocal participation arrangements; - there should be a thorough study of capital instruments as they stand before and after the crisis in order to assess their relevance in a future crisis situation; - high quality liquidity standards are an essential element of the crisis response; - the criteria for high-quality liquid assets should be defined; - the commission should include all euro area sovereign debt in the high-quality liquid asset category irrespective of its specific rating; - the future european banking authority should play a leading role in the definition and implementation of measures on capital requirements and countercyclical capital buffer rules; - countercyclical regulation requires harmonised criteria to ensure comprehensive and scrupulous monitoring of financial markets and the market environment by supervisory authorities.
in writing. − the adoption of the financial supervisory package for the european union last september included, inter alia, the creation of micro-prudential banking supervisory institutions and mechanisms in coordination with the network of national supervisors. the owninitiative report we voted on today focuses on a subject which i think fits into this new architecture in some way and which i consider to be crucial for any economy. the definition of the quantity and quality of own funds is a highly sensitive issue which must be analysed in terms of its impact, in particular on the european economic recovery, and its general context. given that our business fabric is financed mainly by the banking sector - which is one of the pillars of the economy - it seems to me essential that banks manage their risk and profits in a prudent long-term perspective. in addition, i believe that these concerns should be discussed from a transatlantic cooperation point of view and in a proactive manner. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its general content, which i believe is another step towards the implementation of new community mechanisms for economic, budgetary and social planning, coordination and supervision within the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'health systems in sub-saharan africa and global health', as it reaffirms the need to fulfil the commitments made by the international community in the context of the millennium development goals and the european union's commitment to improve the support it provides to health services in sub-saharan africa. the importance of supporting the development of sustainable mutual models, based on solidarity north-south solidarity and between its members but aiming at their autonomy and self-financing in the long term, should be underlined.
in writing. - sub-saharan africa remains the region with the lowest average life expectancy at birth (of the 20 countries with the lowest average life expectancy, 19 are african countries), and the highest mortality and maternal and child mortality rates. it is also the area with the highest prevalence of deaths from hiv infection, with the prevalence rate in the adult population in several countries exceeding 15%. these figures cannot but raise a strong question and a warning signal that it is urgent that humanitarian aid to these countries be properly directed towards health and the provision of basic medical care to populations in great need. the european union and individual states have a role to play here, not because, as the report says, this situation of extreme deprivation is due to the colonial past of the african continent, but because we europeans have special ties of friendship and solidarity with africa which cannot be forgotten.
in writing. − there is unquestionable recognition of the serious health problems and extreme needs of the african population, and of the importance of effective intervention by the developed world to ensure better living conditions on a continent marked by numerous scourges, from natural disasters to wars, conflicts and oppressive dictatorships. but it is not acceptable to use this cause to force the introduction of fundamental and non-negotiable values of humanity, as is the case with the right to life. it is not by imposing new, divisive concepts that we will help to solve the problems of underdeveloped africa. i voted against it.
in writing. - the report contains aspects which we consider important, such as the consideration that health is not a commodity and the concern expressed about the 'increasing commodification of health'. we value the defence of women's right to control without constraint issues relating to their reproductive health, including in the areas of procreation, contraception, termination of pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases. it is also important to draw attention to the problem of the shortage of qualified health personnel in a large number of african countries. instead of helping to secure these resources in their countries of origin, several european countries have contributed to the phenomenon of 'brain drain' by attracting many of these professionals to their territory. where the report could and should have gone further is in what it calls the "external determinants" that "can drastically reduce the room for manoeuvre of states . . . and profoundly affect the health of populations". we cannot ignore the structural adjustment programmes, the external debt and the cuts and privatisations that they are trying to make possible, also in the health sector, where the deficits are already enormous. nor is the way in which the eu is trying at all costs to impose epas that will further weaken the economies of these countries.
in writing. − it is urgent that we continue to join forces to ensure that the eu's investments in health systems in sub-saharan africa are effectively implemented, to reduce once and for all the major disparities between this continent and the rest, in particular as regards childbirth, life expectancy and hiv incidence. it is important, however, to leave a warning to the governments of these countries to use the funds available for what they are granted and not to be diverted to other types of activity, because often the bad governance of certain countries leads to the aggravation of problems in health systems. i should also like to stress that in these countries we must continue to preserve and encourage the birth rate, and that this should not be accompanied by the voluntary termination of pregnancy. while we must respect women's rights, the recurrent practice of abortion should not be the main driver of birth control. hence my vote.
in writing. − it is important to increase the eu budget, but it is also important to improve the flexibility and simplification of the rules on use for a better implementation of the budget. the eu must have policy priorities that contribute to economic growth and the creation of more and better jobs, as well as policies that contribute to competitiveness, such as scientific research and innovation. i call for the architecture of cohesion policy after 2013 to be a simple, fair and transparent transitional regime, taking into account past experiences and the latest trends in the social and economic situation of the regions concerned and enabling them to continue on their path to growth and development. the eu budget must be linked to the european political agenda. for example, energy is on the agenda of all european leaders, and yet we invest in scientific research in the field of energy four times less than we did in the 1980s. i think that the european union's 2020 strategy is a good starting point and a good basis for work.
in writing. − since its foundation, the union has promoted peace and prosperity as core values, an area of freedom and security, a single market and fostered social, economic and territorial cohesion through sustainable development. these values, of which we are proud, must continue to guide the process of european integration in the future and, of course, its regional development policy. and 2013 is tomorrow! it is therefore important that everyone should work towards this objective, because the european reality today is quite complex and is in the process of profound change following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. the adverse global environment has also refocused the union's priorities on addressing specific or temporary problems which need to be solved but which cannot distract from the principles underlying the union's regional policy. the architecture of cohesion policy post-2013 should reflect unequivocally that cohesion policy is not a policy of redistribution of financial resources between member states and regions. it is, or should be, a policy geared to the social, economic and territorial development of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu cohesion policy and regional policy after 2013. the implementation of cohesion policy, which contributes to stable and sustainable economic growth and job creation in the european union, is indispensable for the success of the europe 2020 strategy. while important for achieving the objectives of this strategy, cohesion and regional policy should be independent and provide a framework for the establishment of strong synergies between all european policies.
in writing. − as i have had the opportunity to express on other occasions, the european union's cohesion policy is crucial to reduce the imbalances observed in the various regions of the eu-27, to help to mitigate imbalances, and to foster european competitiveness. it is essential to help the less-favoured areas develop, to emphasise the efficient allocation of funds for innovation and technology, education and to implement measures that stimulate in particular employment and competitiveness. the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy should be a guiding element in this respect too and i therefore welcome the recommendation to encourage greater use of the technical assistance resources available to build the capacities of smes and ngos.
in writing. − cohesion policy aims to reduce disparities between the levels of development of european regions and to mobilise growth potential to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. this policy has proved to be essential to the process of european integration in the quest for modernisation and sustainable growth. in accordance with the spirit of the treaties, these characteristics require that an eu-wide regional policy be implemented throughout the union territory, covering all european regions. specific provisions should continue to apply to the outermost regions, border regions, regions with specific geographical characteristics and other regions facing specific development challenges. the current accumulation of short and long-term challenges facing the european union has led to the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy in order to create a favourable framework for stable and sustainable economic growth and job creation in europe. the implementation of cohesion policy is essential to the success of this strategy. i would stress that territorial cohesion implies an approach geared to territorial development, so there must also be sufficient flexibility to adapt to regional specificities and to support the less developed regions in their efforts to overcome socioeconomic difficulties.
in writing. - this resolution has several positive aspects, particularly when it stresses the objectives of cohesion policy, which aims to reduce disparities between the levels of development of european regions and to mobilise the growth potential to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. this is an area that facilitates the pursuit of modernization and sustainable growth and shows some solidarity. so it was important that it be reinforced. it is essential to take account of the regional dimension in the proposal for the revision of the eu budget and in the future financial framework, without which it is difficult to achieve social, economic and territorial cohesion. cohesion policy should be adapted to the outermost regions referred to in article 349 tfeu by adopting specific measures. the commission should propose measures on a permanent basis and with adequate funding, which are able to adapt to the needs of each outermost region, helping them to cope with the permanent constraints. specific provisions should also continue to apply to border regions, regions with specific geographical characteristics and other regions facing specific development challenges. but we do not want cohesion policy to be subordinated to the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy, which puts the emphasis on 'competitiveness', 'deregulation', 'adaptability' and 'entrepreneurship', always to the detriment of cohesion and convergence.
in writing. - without an assertive cohesion policy, such as has always been practised, the eu would not have been able to reduce the disparities between the geographically most favoured regions and all the others. strengthening these policies, at a time when the crisis has caused some delay in the difficult task of reducing disparities, is essential if the objectives of the 2020 strategy are to be achieved and if the eu is to achieve one of its main pillars of solidarity, which has already enabled the development and evolution of many european regions.
in writing. - cohesion policy is the great pillar of european solidarity. it is through this policy that the aim of reducing regional disparities is achieved and the harmonious development of the european union as a whole is encouraged. in the next period from 2014 to 2020, a framework capable of enhancing the effectiveness of regional policy should be defined. multi-level governance should therefore be encouraged, with greater involvement of regional and local authorities in the legislative process, as provided for in the new lisbon treaty, and with respect for the principle of subsidiarity, with decisions being taken at the level closest to the citizens. the special situation of the outermost regions, such as madeira, where i come from, must not be forgotten. since this group of european regions faces very particular challenges to their development, they should continue to benefit in the future from specific provisions in the implementation of european policies. it would also be desirable to apply other complementary indicators of gdp, which should remain the main criterion for eligibility for regional policy aid, which take account of the specific attributes of the regions and are able to provide a more complete picture of the reality of each region.
in writing. − the european social fund plays a key role in improving professional and employment opportunities, in promoting the adaptation of workers' skills to labour market requirements and their integration into the labour market, and in strengthening social inclusion. it is important that member states use the european social fund to invest in skills, employment, training and retraining with a view to creating more and better jobs. the europe 2020 goals and objectives can be achieved by using this instrument in supporting smes and adapting the education and training system to the needs of smes. there is a need to place a strong emphasis on modernising the education and vocational training system, on decent work, including the fight against precarious and undeclared work, on gender equality, on creating conditions for reconciling work and private life, and ensuring the inclusion of people who are excluded from the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european social fund should be the main financial instrument for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is essential that member states use this fund to invest in training and retraining, with a view to improving the skills of their citizens and creating more and better jobs.
in writing. − given the current employment situation in europe, with the unemployment rate reaching historic highs in several states, i believe that the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy can be achieved by using the european social fund to support small and medium-sized enterprises ('smes') and by adapting the education and vocational training system to the needs of enterprises in order to improve employability. the success of the eu2020 strategy depends on the competitiveness of european businesses and industries and also on our economic dynamics in the post-crisis world. this requires a commitment to the vitality and dynamism of enterprises (especially smes and the technological and scientific industries) and to the proper training of europeans. it is in the service of these objectives that i believe the european social fund should be, and that is why i am reversing the emphasis that this resolution places on the importance of training and education as a means of combating poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, creating wealth and betting on competitiveness.
in writing. − the fight against unemployment and social exclusion has received special attention from european citizens and institutions, owing to the effects of the current economic and social crisis. in this context, the european social fund is of increased importance in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, training and vocational qualification, as well as innovation and the dynamism of smes, are now particularly important. the aim is to promote more and better jobs with a view to eradicating poverty and social exclusion. i therefore reiterate the importance and the urgent need to make the esf, like the other structural funds, more flexible, simpler and more adaptable, in order to enable it to respond more effectively to the new european reality and to the new social problems.
in writing. - we believe that the european social fund should support member states' measures to promote employment, to promote the quality of work in all its aspects (training, working conditions, contractual relations, working time and organisation), and to contribute to reducing social inequalities and disparities in income distribution. increased european social fund funding can help achieve the objectives of social inclusion, combating poverty and social exclusion and education and training, and make an important contribution to economic and social cohesion. the resolution adopted today in the european parliament highlights some of these measures. it stressed the key issues on which the fund should focus, calling for 'continued efforts to achieve social cohesion'. but much more is needed than the money from this esf. and we need to change our policies. the jep must be abolished and replaced by a genuine social progress and development programme.
in writing. − the european social fund is the instrument par excellence for creating new professional and employment opportunities, promoting the adaptation of workers' skills to the requirements of the labour market and their integration into it, and enhancing social inclusion. it is therefore essential for the eu to achieve the objectives set out in the 2020 strategy in the social and employment fields. strengthening this important instrument is therefore essential if we are to achieve the whole strategy outlined by strengthening support for smes, which are the engine of the whole economy and the main drivers of economic and technological development and job creation.
in writing. the european social fund aims to promote employment opportunities and the geographical and occupational mobility of workers in the european union and to facilitate adaptation to industrial change and the evolution of production systems. to this end, vocational training and retraining are of the utmost importance, especially in a period of economic crisis and rising unemployment such as the present one. the fund aims to improve the employment opportunities of workers and to contribute to an improvement in their standard of living. that's why it's an essential tool. job creation and the promotion of employability are a means of achieving the objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion within the union and synergies between the various european policies should be fostered in order to achieve the eu 2020 objectives of growth and jobs. however, i am not in favour of making the esf a financial instrument independent of the other structural funds, with its own rules and budget. i believe that synergies will be better achieved if we do not go for such a sectoral approach to european funds, but instead focus on better coordination between the various instruments and a more efficient use of them.
the rapporteur. - madam president, poverty and social exclusion are violations of human dignity and fundamental human rights, but in the middle of the european year against poverty we risk setting the sad record for people living in poverty. there is a scandalous backsliding in this rich europe, where profits for the financial sector and economic groups continue to grow and take refuge in tax havens. the wave of indignation is therefore growing among millions of workers, women and young people, victims of wage cuts and precarious and low-paid work, the unemployed and pensioners with poverty reforms. if at the end of 2008 eurostat said that, even after the social transfers, some 85 million people were at risk of poverty, the situation will be much worse with the deepening of the eu's neoliberal policies and the so-called austerity measures being taken in some member states, implying wage cuts and public health, education and other services, reduction of social supports and increase in taxes on essential goods, including food, as now also in portugal, after greece, ireland and others. it is unacceptable that the european commission and the council continue to put pressure on member states because of the irrational criteria of the stability pact, looking only at financial issues but not at the social issue, having given all the public support to the banks and the financial system, forgetting the people and, worse still, now forcing workers and deprived populations to urgently pay the public aid that governments have given to the banks with the approval of the european union officials and the applause of the financial groups. so we need to change policies to tackle poverty and social exclusion, as demanded by millions of demonstrators in struggles for this europe outside, including here in strasbourg. the objectives and guiding principles of the european year against poverty cannot be words gone with the wind. the european union's commitment to the un millennium development goals cannot be overlooked. policies should recognise the rights and share the responsibility, promote cohesion and participation of people at risk of or living in poverty, take and implement concrete measures to effectively prevent and eradicate poverty, including the homeless and migrants, not forgetting people with disabilities, and not compromising the future of young people and children. unfortunately, the europe 2020 strategy only aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020, which is a step back from the initial objectives of the so-called lisbon strategy. the multidimensional nature of poverty and social exclusion requires a social dimension to macroeconomic policies as an integral part of the strategy to exit the crisis, which implies a change in priorities and policies, in particular monetary policies, including the stability pact, budgetary and fiscal policies, competition policies and the internal market. priority must be given to economic and social cohesion and the defence of human rights, which implies at least a balance between economic, employment, social and environmental policies and a fair redistribution of wealth and income. it is in this context that minimum income systems are an effective instrument to ensure people's security and to reduce the consequences of exclusion and unemployment in order to support access to decent work, combating precariousness and poverty wages that increase the percentage of working poor. these minimum income systems play an important role in income redistribution and ensure solidarity and social justice, particularly in times of crisis, by acting as social stabilisers and counter-cyclical action, providing additional resources that boost demand and consumption in the internal market, combating recession. therefore, minimum income systems based on at least 60% of the median income of each country must be an integral part of a strategy aimed at social integration, involving both general policies and specific measures for the most vulnerable groups in society in terms of housing, health care, education and training, social services, helping people to get out of poverty and encouraging action towards social inclusion and access to the labour market for all those who are able to do so, in conditions of dignity and not modern slavery, as is happening with precarious and low-paid work that affects millions of workers, especially women and young people. here is the challenge to the european commission: the commission is proposing an initiative and an action plan on minimum incomes to lift children and young people, adults and the elderly out of poverty and put them on the path to social progress.
madam president, europe is going through a period of transformation as a result of the current economic, financial and social crisis. the crises that already exist in some member states have worsened, social inequalities have increased, and this has increased the number of citizens living below the poverty line. today, there are more poor people in the european union. there are more women and men who earn less than 60% of the average wage in the country in which they live. we have a serious problem which requires concrete and effective measures. eighty million europeans live at or below the poverty line. although the poverty line in the european union varies from country to country, it is certainly a growing phenomenon in our community, which has the most advanced social model in the world as its development paradigm. in portugal, about 20% of the portuguese live or are at risk of living in poverty, on less than 360 euros a month. the data on child poverty in my country is devastating. portugal is one of the eight countries with the highest levels of child poverty. we welcome the objective of lifting 20 million citizens out of poverty by 2020, as well as efforts to promote employment and social inclusion. i welcome the rapporteur's contribution and would like to emphasize that, while it is desirable that there should be a minimum income, the amount to be fixed should be a matter for each member state.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank all the members and all the members, and also the commission and the council and the belgian presidency, for the words they have said here, but i would like to stress three points which several members have also stressed. the first is that good words are not enough, good intentions are not enough. this european year for combating poverty must be given practical substance. policies need to change. you have to put people first. we need to understand that it is the workers who create wealth and that they need a living wage, but that to create more wealth, we need more jobs. more jobs with rights and fair wages. but there is also a need for another redistribution of wealth and income, and it is in this context that the minimum income system emerges as an essential instrument to help in this struggle, maintaining different minimum incomes in each country, but a common goal... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, and it is not the commission's intention to do so. it demands to be placed at the top of our priorities and deserves a collective response guaranteeing a minimum of dignity for our fellow citizens who are in a situation of social fragility. this is a profound problem that is affecting our young people, our elderly people, but also our workers in a growing way, affected by the loss of 6 million jobs in the last two years alone and by the insufficiency and precariousness of their wages, even when they are able to stay in their jobs. we need a systemic approach to tackle and solve the causes, the problems at the root of the problems, but we cannot at the moment dispense with immediate and urgent responses to their consequences. that is why ensuring that those who are vulnerable in our society have a minimum income for their existence and providing them with urgent responses so that they can get out of this situation is not only a necessity but above all a demand that we must subscribe to and that this report very well defends.
in writing. - i welcome this proposal, as the aim is to make the collection of data by type of goods compulsory for statistics on maritime transport, which provides a useful framework for supporting and monitoring the policy of promoting co-modality, which in the case of island regions should mean greater support for a combination of maritime and air transport, as these are the only means of transport available. this statistical survey would also allow a better understanding of the costs associated with the outermost regions, both in terms of goods and passengers, which could influence decisions on other policies such as the trans-european networks and, more specifically, the motorways of the sea, which should include maritime transport between islands and between them and the european continent. i also support the rapporteur's intention to adapt the present provisions to the new rules on delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon, with the aim of strengthening the european parliament's powers in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that it is essential to have complete and homogeneous statistics by type of goods for all modes of transport. this information provides a useful framework to support and monitor the policy of promoting co-modality, i.e. the possibility of optimised combination of different modes of transport in the same transport chain and the modernisation of freight transport logistics. i call for european statistics on all modes of transport to be compiled according to common concepts and standards, in order to achieve the greatest possible comparability between modes of transport.
in writing. the proposal aims to make compulsory the collection of data by type of goods for statistics on maritime transport, by standardizing the type of information collected and processed in the 27 member states. as the rapporteur says, 'the existence of complete and homogeneous statistics by type of goods for all modes of transport would provide a useful framework to support and monitor the policy of promoting co-modality, i.e. the possibility of optimised combination of different modes of transport in the same transport chain and of modernising the logistics of freight transport'. i am aware of the importance of the safe and efficient transport of goods for international trade, and i support the commission's proposal.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is to amend directive 2009/42/ec in order to make the collection of data by type of goods compulsory for maritime transport statistics. currently, this data is collected on a voluntary basis by 18 member states. five member states have no coastline and do not provide data in accordance with the directive. in most cases, the collection of the relevant data will not impose any additional burden on respondents, as the member states concerned should be able to compile the data using existing data sources (e.g. customs documents). i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need for complete and homogeneous statistics by type of goods for all modes of transport to allow for a general framework of comparability in the eu.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation aims to make the collection of data by type of goods for maritime transport statistics compulsory, the rapporteur considering that in most cases the collection of the relevant data will not impose any additional burden on respondents, as the member states concerned should be able to compile the data using existing data sources (e.g. customs documents). in addition, data collection by type of goods is already mandatory for european statistics on road, rail and inland waterway transport. we share the view that the existence of statistics on all modes of transport, both goods and passengers, would provide a useful information framework for the definition of a policy of interoperability and co-modality, i.e. the possibility of optimised combination of different modes of transport in the same transport chain, contributing to a modernisation and rationalisation of the logistics of freight transport and promoting its sustainability. this possibility depends, of course, on the comparability of available statistics, which requires the harmonization of certain standards and concepts.
in writing. the proposal aims to make it compulsory to collect data by type of goods for statistics on maritime transport. at present, this collection is carried out on a purely voluntary basis by 18 member states for maritime transport and is already mandatory for european statistics on road, rail and inland waterway transport. the existence of complete and homogeneous statistics by type of goods for all modes of transport, including maritime transport, will provide a useful framework to support and monitor the policy of promoting co-modality, i.e. the possibility of optimised combination of different modes of transport in the same transport chain and the modernisation of freight transport logistics.
in writing. - the compulsory collection of data by type of goods for the statistical survey of maritime transport is, in my view, essential for the promotion of co-modality, favouring the possibility of combining different modes of transport. since this data collection is already mandatory for statistics on other modes of transport road, rail and inland waterway , i believe that a common framework including statistical surveys on maritime transport is appropriate, which can also help to ensure maximum comparability between the various modes of transport. the revision of directive 2009/42/ec should therefore, in line with the commission proposal, follow this line and be applied already to the 2011 data, in line with the voluntary practice already being developed by 18 member states of the european union.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by denmark in relation to 951 redundancies in 45 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 28 (machinery and equipment manufacturing) in the nuts ii region of nordjylland, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. − in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement effectively the instruments to support workers affected by this and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. as denmark has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 951 redundancies in 45 companies in the region of nordjylland, i will use the set of reasons explained in my explanation of vote on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the region of catalonia (spain) to justify my vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the machinery and equipment industries in the danish region of nordjylland were caught off guard by the changes in the markets and the global credit crisis and suffered dramatic cuts in orders, which led to redundancies in more than forty companies. in regions particularly dependent on one sector such as nordjylland, market recovery and the relocation of workers to other areas of activity tends to be slower and more difficult. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund seems justified.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which denmark's intervention plan to help 951 people made redundant in 45 machinery and equipment manufacturing companies in the small region of nordjylland is set. in this case, 40% of the workers laid off were skilled in manual work, metalworking and mechanical construction, and 33% of the workers were unskilled. this reality clearly demonstrates the need for an effective response in the technical and professional development of the citizens affected by this global crisis. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available eur 500 million has been requested.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by denmark in relation to 951 redundancies in 45 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 28 (machinery and equipment manufacturing) in the nuts ii region of nordjylland, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i would stress as of particular relevance that: (1) the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, without relieving undertakings of their responsibilities; (2) the commission, in the context of the mobilisation of the egf, proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused esf resources, as the european parliament had been calling for; (3) the functioning and added value of the egf is assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, in the context of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013; (4) the commission proposal includes information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, again in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by denmark in relation to 951 redundancies in 45 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 28 (machinery and equipment manufacturing) in the nuts ii region of nordjylland, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. - having regard to the requests for assistance from the netherlands in relation to 512 redundancies at nxp semiconductors netherlands, which operates in the electronics sector in the nuts ii regions of gelderland and eindhoven, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission, in the context of mobilising the egf, has proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for attention to the fact that the egf was set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. given that the netherlands has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 512 redundancies at nxp semiconductors netherlands, which operates in the electronics sector in the regions of gelderland and eindhoven, and having regard to the reasons i gave in my explanation of vote on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the region of catalonia (spain), i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - we are once again faced with the problem of the closure of the main industry in one city, nijmegen, in this case, with the aggravating circumstance that the establishment of another or others with equal potential for employment is not foreseen. a search of the resolutions adopted by the european parliament will give you a better idea of the scale and scope of the problem in the various european countries. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the development of the regions concerned. i am afraid that if nothing is done, the requests for the mobilisation of the fund will multiply and that it may even prove insufficient to help workers who have been affected by sudden and unexpected changes in their undertakings.
in writing. − given the effects of the current global economic and financial crisis on industrial activity and the specific nature of work in the electronics sector, an urgent and effective programme is needed to support the 512 workers made redundant by nxl semiconductors netherlands in the regions of gelderland and eindhoven in the netherlands. the regional and social impact of the decline in activity of the business unit in nijmegen, province of gelderland, where it was the largest local employer, with a large number of low-skilled workers who had worked for the company for decades, should be highlighted. this situation reinforces the need for a plan for the revalorization and qualification of these former workers in order to promote their reintegration into the labour market. i reiterate the need to ensure that mechanisms are in place to facilitate and accelerate the mobilisation and use of egf resources by european countries.
in writing. - having regard to the requests for assistance from the netherlands in relation to 512 redundancies at nxp semiconductors netherlands, which operates in the electronics sector in the nuts ii regions of gelderland and eindhoven, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i would stress as of particular relevance that: (1) the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, without relieving undertakings of their responsibilities; (2) the commission, in the context of the mobilisation of the egf, proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused esf resources, as the european parliament had been calling for; (3) the functioning and added value of the egf is assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, in the context of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013; (4) the commission proposal includes information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, again in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. - having regard to the requests for assistance from the netherlands in relation to 512 redundancies at nxp semiconductors netherlands, which operates in the electronics sector in the nuts ii regions of gelderland and eindhoven, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which approved the mobilisation of eur 2.4 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for portugal, to support workers made redundant at qimonda following portugal's application for egf mobilisation in december 2009. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade. the egf assistance package is intended to safeguard the position of the 839 redundancies in qimonda portugal from 8 june to 8 october last year, and this amount will include the following measures: recognition of skills, vocational training, training and support for the creation of companies, self-employment aid and incentives for recruitment and professional practice acquired at the workplace. i therefore consider it essential that all the necessary efforts be made to speed up the mobilisation of the egf, recalling the commitment made by the european institutions to ensure a simple and rapid procedure for the adoption of these decisions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 2 405 671 for portugal, in respect of 839 redundancies at qimonda portugal sa between 8 june and 8 october last year. this money is intended to support workers made redundant by qimonda through measures such as recognition of skills, vocational training, training and support for the creation of businesses, self-employment aid and incentives for recruitment and professional practice acquired at the workplace. this is the second time that portugal has submitted an application to mobilise the egf for the northern region. in 2009, following redundancies in the textile sector, eur 832 800 was mobilised. finally, i regret that the portuguese government has not been able to use the full potential of the fund. while the dutch ex-workers at nxp semiconductors will receive eur 3 534 per head and the danes at nordjylland will receive eur 7 908 each, the portuguese ex-workers at qimonda will receive only eur 2 867 per head of support from the fund.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that portugal has submitted requests for assistance in relation to 839 redundancies in qimonda sa, a multinational electronics company in the nuts ii region of the north, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the functioning and added value of the egf should be assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and of several other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, as part of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013.
in writing. − the closure of qimonda in vila do conde had the immediate effect of adding almost 1 000 workers to unemployment in the northern region of the country, which already had the highest unemployment rates in the country at the time, with an average monthly inflow of 22 000 unemployed people recorded in the northern region's employment centres between january and october 2009. following the redundancies carried out by qimonda portugal sa, a request for assistance was submitted on 17 december 2009 in 839 cases of workers made redundant. on the basis of its assessment, the european commission concluded that all the necessary conditions were met and presented this proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide support for the reintegration of these workers, who have been made redundant as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. i therefore support this decision which allows the sum of eur 2 405 671 to be mobilised from the general budget of the eu for 2010 to provide a financial contribution in response to the portuguese request. i also stress the need to ensure a rapid procedure for its approval.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), initiated by european commission president durão barroso in 2005 following the commission's report european values in a globalised world, now has a new format that makes it more transparent, with broader objectives (taking into account the consequences of the current crisis) and moving towards shorter funding deadlines, which i hope will happen in this case. although i voted in favour of this proposal, i regret that, once again, the portuguese government has not been able to use the full potential of the fund, as other countries have done and as the per capita amount of money requested from the egf shows when the different applications are examined. today, for example, a further request for egf support was also voted on, and it was found that while the dutch ex-workers of nxp semiconductors will receive eur 3 534 per head, the danes of nordjylland will receive eur 7 908 each. in the case of the former portuguese workers of qimonda covered by the fund, they will receive only eur 2 867 per capita of support from the fund, intended for measures such as recognition of skills, vocational training, training/support for the creation of companies, self-employment aid/incentives for recruitment and professional practice acquired at the workplace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential that the european globalisation adjustment fund be mobilised in favour of portugal, to support workers made redundant at qimonda. the eur 2.4 million to be mobilised will certainly not be enough to offset the negative consequences of the redundancies that have occurred, but it will be an important support. the mobilization must be simple, fast and include training programmes which contribute to the effective reintegration of the affected workers into the labour market.
in writing. - the portuguese company qimonda, part of a leading german group, was referred to in portugal as a successful example and as being at the forefront of its sector of activity. it was the largest portuguese exporter and, before the problems that led to its insolvency became known, it was preparing to invest in new technologies and had obtained public funds to support the production of solar cells. qimonda's workers were highly skilled and had high productivity rates, so it was not to be expected that the company would become unviable in such a short space of time. in 2008 the company even considered the possibility of setting up three more industrial units in portugal, all in the vila do conde area. the north region, where the traditionally industrial qimonda was located, has been particularly hit by business closures and unemployment. the ability of qimonda to attract more skilled workers, which the region so badly needed, is now compromised. i hope that the workers at qimonda will be able to benefit adequately from the mobilisation of the fund and be able to re-enter the labour market fully. here i leave my sympathy to them and their families.
in writing. the closure of the qimonda factory in vila do conde has aggravated the high unemployment rates in the north of portugal. in this case, over 900 workers were laid off, the vast majority of whom struggle with low literacy and academic skills: 36.6% attended only primary education and only 10.7% went on to post-secondary education. i therefore stress the importance of this plan to help 839 of the workers made redundant in order to mitigate the effects of the serious economic, financial and social crisis in this region. i would also stress the importance of measures such as the certification of skills, vocational training, the encouragement of business creation and the opportunity for new work experience at the workplace. it is also regrettable that this is only the second application for the egf by portugal in two years to support workers in the north directly. in the face of the overwhelming unemployment figures and the depleted state of public finances in portugal, together with the prospect of economic recession in 2011 due to the latest austerity measures, the government has a duty and an obligation to be more competent in raising these funds to support unemployed workers in a concrete way.
in writing. - the ep approved the mobilisation of eur 2.4 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers made redundant in qimonda, as requested by the portuguese government on 17.12.2009. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 405 671 from the egf for portugal. it concerns 839 redundancies at qimonda portugal s.a. between 8 june and 8 october last year. the total estimated cost of this package is eur 3,7 million, of which eur 2,4 million (i.e. 65% of the total costs) has been requested from the egf. unfortunately, the european commission and the council were not available to intervene when it was possible to keep the company running and prevent the german multinational from laying off workers. it is only now, too late, that this very meagre support for the unemployed is emerging. this is the 16th application to be examined under the 2010 budget and will include the following measures: recognition of skills, vocational training, training and support for business creation, self-employment aid and incentives for recruitment and professional practice acquired in the workplace. the northern region, where the redundancies occurred, was already accepted for egf support in a previous application in 2009 for redundancies in the textiles sector. eur 832 800 was mobilised.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that portugal has submitted requests for assistance in relation to 839 redundancies in quimonda sa, a multinational electronics company in the nuts ii region of the north, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i would stress as of particular relevance that: (1) the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, without relieving undertakings of their responsibilities; (2) the commission, in the context of the mobilisation of the egf, proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused esf resources, as the european parliament had been calling for; (3) the functioning and added value of the egf is assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, in the context of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013; (4) the commission proposal includes information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, again in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. - i am naturally voting in favour of the financial decision to mobilise the fund for workers made redundant by the portuguese company qimonda. what is important to say at this stage is that the decision is late and that the money will arrive in portugal even later, only at the end of november, the beginning of december. it didn't have to be this way and it shouldn't be this way. the european globalisation adjustment fund can and should be streamlined so that victims of collective redundancies do not have to wait 17 months, as is the case, for support which declares itself to be urgent. a europe which has been so kind to financial capital cannot continue to be ungrateful to the victims of the crisis.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that portugal has submitted requests for assistance in relation to 839 redundancies in quimonda sa, a multinational electronics company in the nuts ii region of the north, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is a legislative and budgetary instrument of the european union set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. in view of the requests for assistance submitted by portugal in relation to 839 redundancies in qimonda sa, a multinational electronics company in the nuts ii region of the north, i welcome the adoption of the report by the european parliament. i hope that support will be provided in the most dynamic and effective way possible, through a simple and rapid process, so as to enable the reintegration into the labour market of workers affected by the redundancies caused by globalisation and the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance from spain in respect of 1 429 redundancies in 23 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of catalonia, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that it should be ensured that the egf individually supports the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of companies or sectors.
in writing. - financial assistance for workers affected by redundancies as a result of globalisation should be provided on an individual basis and aimed at their reintegration into the labour market. it should therefore be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. in this regard, the joint statement of the institutional trilogue underlines the importance attached to ensuring that the procedures for adopting decisions on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund are as simple and rapid as possible. given that spain has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 1 429 redundancies in 23 companies in the region of catalonia, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: cataluna automocion/spain, as it will provide additional support for workers in catalonia affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and help reintegrate these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - in the wake of the crisis in this sector, i remember hearing the former spanish prime minister, josé maría aznar, tell how the former president of the united states, president george w. bush, was astonished to learn that spain's main export was not just any agricultural product but cars. this was a positive sign that the clichés about the economies of south-western europe were losing their meaning. unfortunately, the effort to modernise spanish industry, undertaken in particular by the popular party government, has suffered a serious setback with the present world crisis. the fall in demand for cars in the european union is quite severe, with production in the second quarter of 2009 falling by almost 40%, a situation that threatens to put even more jobs at risk, not only in spain but throughout the union. i am concerned about this setback and hope that the spanish economy will be able to give an adequate response to the crisis, and this fund is only part of that response.
in writing. - this plan to help 1 429 former workers from 23 car, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing companies in the region of catalonia, spain, is urgently needed to help the technical and vocational development of a large number of european citizens directly affected by the effects of the current global economic and financial crisis. about 25% of the workers covered by this plan have no schooling or have left school early, and more than 40% of the workers have only a basic level of education. low education and low skills levels of the workforce in important sectors of european productive activity are an added problem in the context of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. in the interests of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, too, a strategy is needed to ensure that the resources available to the member states and european citizens are used more efficiently and profitably, as is the case with the european globalisation adjustment fund, where just over 10% of the budgetary allocation of eur 500 million has been used this year, which is unacceptable in view of the scale of unemployment in europe and the increased difficulties in restoring employment.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance from spain in respect of 1 429 redundancies in 23 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of catalonia, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament. i would stress as of particular relevance that: (1) the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, without relieving undertakings of their responsibilities; (2) the commission, in the context of the mobilisation of the egf, proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused esf resources, as the european parliament had been calling for; (3) the functioning and added value of the egf is assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, in the context of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013; (4) the commission proposal includes information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, again in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. - i welcome this report which ensures that this convention and the recommendations adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission are implemented, which makes it possible to adopt measures relating to the control and enforcement of all fishing vessels used or intended for use in fisheries targeting fishery resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. the implementation by regional fisheries organisations of measures to combat illegal fishing should be given the highest priority and therefore the control and enforcement regime adopted by this convention should be able to be rapidly transposed into eu law, with the ep being fully and timely informed at all stages of the negotiation process with the regional fisheries organisations, ensuring the presence of observers from this institution in the negotiations.
in writing. − it is important that the eu establishes a community regime to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the proposed regulation should incorporate measures fixing the fishing opportunities and associated conditions applicable in community waters and, for community fishing vessels, in waters where catch limitations are required. it is essential that it is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and that it contributes to sustainable development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a control and enforcement regime applicable in the area of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, because it introduces a new control and enforcement scheme to ensure the conservation and balanced use of fisheries resources in the region. this scheme includes, inter alia, the control of vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and a control system to be exercised by the port state where fishery products are landed.
in writing. - given the importance of fisheries for europe (both as an economic activity creating jobs and wealth and as a source of food for the population), we must always be very cautious about any regulation that imposes new and more demanding obligations on european fishermen. the current proposal aims to update the eu regulation transposing the control and enforcement regime adopted by the neafc convention. these measures are intended mainly to promote compliance by non-contracting party vessels with the rules of the convention and to include a new system of port state control to prevent the landing in european ports of frozen fish whose legality has not been confirmed. it also lays down new measures to control vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i believe that these measures will ultimately serve to protect european fishermen from the introduction of fish on the european market which does not comply with community rules, which is to be welcomed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i share the need to transpose into community law the system of control and enforcement adopted by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. i would stress in the new rules the control of illegal and unreported fishing vessels and the new port state control system, which effectively prevents the landing and transhipment in european ports of frozen fish whose legality has not been confirmed by the flag state of fishing vessels flying the flag of another contracting party. in 2007 and 2008, the european parliament was not represented at the nafo annual meeting. i cannot therefore fail to mention that, in the light of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament must be represented in future negotiations of international conventions on this subject.
in writing. − the proposed control system contains provisions to promote compliance with conservation and enforcement measures by non-contracting party vessels and thus ensure full compliance with the conservation and management measures adopted by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (neafc). it is therefore a question of filling in the gaps in the control system, particularly as regards illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities, which deserves our agreement. the report considers that member states whose vessels are authorised to fish in the neafc regulatory area should allocate sufficient means of inspection to this regime. it should be noted that the control of fishing activities now places increased demands on the member states, both in the context of the common fisheries policy and in the context of the regional fisheries organisations. we therefore consider that the financial means for monitoring should be reconsidered, particularly as regards the maximum co-financing rates provided for in the cfp financial measures regulation for the acquisition, development and/or modernisation of monitoring equipment by the member states. we have therefore proposed raising the current rate from 50% to 75%, taking into account the ongoing review of this regulation.
in writing. − the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is essential to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources and to ensure greater fairness and equity in the distribution of wealth. the very existence of the fishing community depends on these assumptions. the control of all fishing vessels engaged or to be engaged in fishing in the areas defined in the convention, as well as coercive measures, are of great importance in this context. this report goes in that direction. we must all be involved in this effort and deepen it. the prevention, deterrence and elimination of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing should be a priority of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a control and enforcement regime applicable in the area of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries is of the utmost importance in view of the updating of eu rules transposing the control and enforcement regime adopted by the neafc (north-east atlantic fisheries commission). as with the other transpositions of the rfp recommendations into community fisheries law, this one also aims to introduce tighter controls in the fight against illegal fishing, to eliminate any legal loopholes and to uphold the basic principle of the cfp of sustainable fishing inside and outside community waters. in addition, the text agreed and voted on today, in my view, upholds parliament's prerogatives under the ordinary legislative procedure and includes the necessary adaptations resulting from articles 290e and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − in view of the importance of this convention in contributing to the consultation, cooperation and optimum use, rational management and conservation of fisheries resources in the north-west atlantic area, and in promoting international collaboration to improve the sustainable management of marine resources on the basis of scientific research, the amendment presented is considered essential, which completely reformulates the convention with the aim of aligning it with other regional conventions and international instruments and incorporating modern fisheries management concepts. the positive measures include the simplification of the structure of this convention, the modernisation of budget contributions in accordance with the user/payer principle for the contracting parties, new definitions of obligations and a review of the decision-making and dispute settlement process for the latter. these improvements are essential to promote the future cfp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries, as the amendments made make a positive contribution to the reformulation of the internal structure and the redistribution of responsibilities of the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation. i believe, however, that in the light of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament should be represented in future negotiations on international conventions.
in writing. - given the importance of fisheries for europe (both as an economic activity creating jobs and wealth and as a source of food for the population), we must always be very cautious about any regulation that imposes new and more demanding obligations on european fishermen. in the case under consideration, however, we have the proposal for the adoption of an amendment which strengthens fishing opportunities for the european union under the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries, which is welcome and deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i share the need to transpose into community law the system of control and enforcement adopted by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. i would stress in the new rules the control of illegal and unreported fishing vessels and the new port state control system, which effectively prevents the landing and transhipment in european ports of frozen fish whose legality has not been confirmed by the flag state of fishing vessels flying the flag of another contracting party. in 2007 and 2008, the european parliament was not represented at the nafo annual meeting. i cannot therefore fail to mention that, in the light of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament must be represented in future negotiations of international conventions on this subject.
in writing. − the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation (nafo) has as its main objective to contribute, on the basis of cooperation between states, to the sustainable management and conservation of fishery resources in the nafo convention area. we support and value the principle of international cooperation and collaboration in this field, based on sound scientific foundations. in this respect, we consider that the amendment to the convention adopted in 2007 and 2008, in line with the objectives set out above and aiming to take up other regional conventions and international instruments and incorporate modern fisheries management concepts, should be supported. we cannot, however, fail to point out and regret the delay with which the european parliament is called upon to give its opinion. the commission's proposal for transposition into community law is dated 8 march 2010. it therefore took more than two years for the document to be drawn up and for parliament to be heard. in future it would be important to have more timely involvement and participation, preferably in the negotiating processes themselves.
in writing. − the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation (nafo) has as its main objective to ensure the rational management and conservation of fishery resources in the nafo convention area. the eu is a contracting party to this regional fisheries organisation/rfo and, like the other contracting parties to this rfo, adopted at the 2007 nafo annual meeting the amendment to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries. the amendment aims to simplify and modernise the structures of this organisation, adapting it to the current reality of fisheries, introducing new definitions of obligations for contracting parties flag and port states , clarifying the rights and obligations of nafo contracting parties. in view of the eu's best interests, particularly the fishing opportunities granted to the european union under the convention, i consider that the adoption of this amendment is essential, and i am only being late. like the rapporteur, i regret the delay in the european commission's submission of its proposal (more than two years) compared to the date on which the amendment was adopted (2007) at one of the nafo annual meetings. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - companies must be prevented from converting permanent jobs into atypical jobs which lead to job insecurity. this situation is made more serious by the increase in unregistered female workers and the fact that many women have no choice but to accept precarious work. despite this, it is found that women are underrepresented in precarious work, as paid domestic work and care work are not taken into account. the legislative framework should be adapted to existing realities which may lead to precarious working conditions, in particular involuntary parttime work, the fact that companies do not present the lack of working conditions: no job security, low wage levels, lack of social protection and career advancement opportunities or the absence of collective representation of workers. in contrast to these realities, initial and continuing training, increased information on women's rights and a real awareness of women's occupational and family situation must be promoted, since the fact that women's income is recorded as a second income is often misleading, since it is often the only income of families.
in writing. - precarious work is not a gender problem although it may be felt particularly strongly among women and any view that seeks to reduce its dimension to a gender issue is reductive. as i have had the opportunity to argue on several other occasions, the rigid models of labour law have clearly failed. the example of the united states shows that flexibility is not synonymous with insecurity but with dynamism in the labour market. increasing flexibility does not mean increasing precariousness. it's the opposite. in the post-crisis period, we will realise that the models we were used to have failed and that the labour market - if we really want to create jobs - will have to look at atypical contracts (part-time, shift work, casual or temporary work, homework or teleworking) as normal forms of work, without losing in security what will be gained in dynamics and flexibility. in this context, i believe that women can be the main beneficiaries of more flexible systems, where the combination of their working life with family life or motherhood does not represent such a high cost as in more traditional forms of work.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis has increased the problem of poor working women who, often having to reconcile work with family commitments, find themselves in a particularly vulnerable employment position. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to combat this problem by urging member states and the social partners to develop new and effective strategies on job insecurity, taking into account the principle of gender equality. i would stress in this resolution the request to the commission to submit a proposal on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this own-initiative report which stresses the gender dimension of precarious employment, denounces various situations and insists on a set of measures to combat discrimination against women. it is generally positive, although it contains some contradictions and statements with which we disagree. among the various positive proposals, the following stand out: calls on the commission to support the member states in developing a campaign to enable women workers in precarious situations to gradually obtain stable employment; calls on the commission and the member states to develop strategies to combat precarious work, with a focus on decent and environmentally friendly jobs and gender balance; it called on the council and the commission to identify the characteristics of precarious employment in the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states and in the new gender equality strategy.
in writing. - precariousness affects not only working conditions and relationships but also the stability and quality of life of workers themselves. precariousness in europe affects women more, which exacerbates gender disparities in employment, particularly in terms of social rights and pay. this reality is even more acute in domestic work and in the work of migrant women. in this crisis, the precarious men and women were among the first to lose their jobs. with the recession and the destruction of contract jobs, the employment structure is becoming even more precarious. we need to reverse the cycle. gender equality and social rights at work must be guaranteed. the fight against precariousness and the fight against women's double working hours must be urgent objectives of the union, and i therefore support this report, which is a step in that direction.
in writing. - precarious work is an important factor of social instability which is worsening very significantly in a time of high unemployment rates (which continue to rise in several countries, including my own, portugal). traditionally, all forms of job insecurity or job volatility have hit the female workforce first and most strongly: with lower wages (even for equal work), with higher unemployment rates and also with a marked precariousness at work, due to ancestral social factors, but also to the specificity of motherhood. the negative impact of this reality is not limited to the already very serious discrimination which women are subjected to downstream, but by making it difficult for women to have equal access to the world of work, it conditions their economic independence and their autonomy as persons. in this context, combating job insecurity, particularly for women, is a very constructive contribution to social stability and also to gender equality - one of the fundamental values that the european union embodies.
for the gue/ngl group i would like to be very frank in this debate. this is not a discussion between accountants, but between projects and choices for the future. the governments' view is very simple, they all submit to the new brussels consensus. at national level, budgets are governed by a single slogan: austerity. at european level, the consequence is very simple: a residual budget. the crisis is not over, and i would like to say this to the european council, but in the meantime social measures at national level are being withdrawn altogether. the crisis is not over, but our national budgets all point to wage freezes or cuts, pension cuts and increases in the most unfair of all taxes, vat. this is the context in which governments refuse to give one more euro to the european budget. your proposal is, by 3 billion euros, worse than the one we are discussing here today. but the proposal we are discussing here is also a timid one, and one without any audacity. in reality, what we needed was a european budget that could compensate for policies at national level, with clear investment directed towards job creation. we needed a european budget to offset the negative effects of budgetary policies at national level. this wasn't the option. governments transfer new powers to europe without transferring resources, they cut back on the various lines of action, and in the meantime they are able to propose even some increases which can only be explained from the point of view of dependence on lobbies. this is the case with the proposed funding for the nuclear fusion institute, eur 350 million, an investment that is more than doubtful in the current situation. the real rationality at stake is therefore this. at national level, budgetary discipline based on stupid sanctions, such as those which the franco-german communiqué has once again said and ratified today. and at european level, a residual and mediocre budget subject to chronic underfunding. that is why it is so important at this time to discuss own resources in the european union and the need for a european-wide financial transaction tax that would allow a minimum of fairness to be achieved in the economy. because today there is a europe that despairs. it is europe that is going on general strikes in greece, spain, france, today. we shall also be seeing it in portugal and italy next november. and it is to this europe, this europe which is struggling and despairing, that we owe a response, a response with justice, with investment, with job creation.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2011 that parliament is proposing is ambitious, intelligent, respectful of the commitments it has made, rigorous and realistic. this smart ambition is possible, as the eu budget still amounts to about 1% of gross national income. this budget also clearly demonstrates the need to revise the multiannual financial framework, given the low margins of its headings, and in particular headings 1a, 3b and 4. the urgency of the debate on the need for new own resources for the community budget is also clear. the implementation of the policies and programmes agreed by the institutions of the european union is being ensured, against the wishes of the council, which is proposing blind cuts, arbitrary cuts, both in payment appropriations and in commitment appropriations, which are not even in line with the sound rules of financial and budgetary management, and most seriously, they would jeopardise the implementation of initiatives and investments which are of added value, an added value, for the european union. we have taken - and i congratulate the rapporteur - youth, education and mobility policies as our priorities. we have increased the appropriations for the lifelong learning programme, the pessoa programme, the erasmus mundus programme for the mobility of researchers and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme. on youth employment mobility, i would like to highlight the pilot project in which i was personally involved, your first eures job. i could not help but also stress the parliament's aim of legislative excellence, which was met with rigor, as evidenced by the cut of eur 25 million in this budget compared to the initial proposal before the consultation with the bureau.
mr president, mr commissioner, this budget, like the previous ones, is constrained by the limits of an extremely narrow multiannual financial framework which makes economic and social cohesion practically impossible. as some have already said, an urgent mid-term review of this financial framework is therefore necessary. but once again the draft budget falls short of the amount agreed in the multiannual financial framework. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. either the budget is an instrument of solidarity, the reduction of inequalities, economic and social cohesion, employment and social progress, and thus serves the interests of workers and peoples, or it is, on the contrary, an instrument of inequalities, neoliberal advances, precarious employment, unemployment, external interventionism and war, and thus constitutes an affront to the interests of workers and peoples. this is also the message that is being conveyed by the struggles that are growing outside europe. the small size of this budget first of all undermines its redistributive function, deprives it of justice and accentuates the harmful effects of the policies pursued by the european union. we are therefore saying that there is an alternative to this budget and that it is not only possible but increasingly necessary. that is why, among the various proposals we have put forward, we have proposed the creation of a european programme for employment and sustainable development covering 1% of the european union's gdp, to be supplemented by the member states' own resources, with a view to achieving real convergence, promoting the potential of each country, the sustainable use of its resources, and focusing on producing and creating jobs with rights.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, european economic recovery can only be achieved through an ambitious budget that strengthens key areas such as education, youth, scientific research and innovation. i welcome the proposal for parliament's 2011 budget which is being discussed today, because it reflects exactly the priorities set out, and i congratulate your rapporteur on that. for the first time, parliament is on an equal footing with the council in these matters. this is the first budget since the treaty of lisbon. for this reason and because of the crisis europe is going through, it will be important for the conciliation process to be successful. it is essential that the eu has a budget for the implementation of the priority areas and the new competences conferred by the treaty, such as energy, space and foreign policy. it is important that we fight for what we believe in, for a budget that is visionary in times of crisis. parliament's proposal reflects this ambition. only by strengthening these areas, areas such as science and innovation, which contribute to economic growth, more and better jobs, can we make europe a more attractive place to live and work.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we have identified the political challenges we face: globalisation, combating climate change, an ageing population, energy security, and so on. and all this accompanied by a crisis that insists on not passing. and we want to maintain a strong social status, which also implies strengthening our competitiveness. for all this we have devised a strategy, the eu 2020 strategy. this strategy, however, needs funding. we must define the amounts needed for each of the policies to implement this strategy well, so we will know the amount needed. clearly i advocate a bottom-up methodology, the method of addition, and then once we know what we need, we have to define what are the own resources that we should have. the fact is that about 80% of the community budget comes from national budgets and we must reduce this dependence, even if we are to respect the treaties themselves. however, this strategy, the european union 2020 strategy, must start now, and so i ask why the revision of the multiannual financial framework is not already being carried out to align it with this strategy to which we have all subscribed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate my colleague the rapporteur on her work and to congratulate all those who have worked with her on this report which has enabled us to reach agreement on this first reading. the aim of this directive, which is a recast of the previous directive, which was adopted more than ten years ago, is, as everyone here has acknowledged, to put an end to a widespread problem: the european union and late payment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the negative effects of this practice on economic life are enormous, both at the level of small and mediumsized enterprises and at the level of the internal market, and these negative effects cannot be tolerated any longer, especially when we are living in an economic and financial crisis such as the one we are going through. this legislative amendment brings coherence and makes sense to the plan to revive the european economy and the implementation of the small business act. this directive will certainly improve the liquidity of companies. the creditors will now have an effective and efficient instrument to enforce their rights against bad payers. with this directive, the reprehensible practice of public bodies will be the exception. public administration bodies must set a good example and pay their bills for goods and services within one month. it will now be up to the institutions concerned, the council and the member states to ensure that this directive is transposed as quickly as possible.
madam president, there is a great disparity in the conditions of payment to firms in many member states today, especially where the state, smes and large firms are involved. we in the business world know that in this situation of economic crisis and increased financing difficulties, companies are increasingly struggling with liquidity problems and are even exposed in many member states to an increased risk of bankruptcy. it is clear that the current directive which tried to regulate this matter has had limited effects, and the proposal we are now examining is therefore an important step forward in respecting payment deadlines, not only in relations between companies and public bodies but also, and this is essential, in the relations between companies themselves. we now have legislation which brings us greater added value, with a clear system of penalties for late payment, and which also brings us an effective improvement in the balance of the abuse of a dominant position by the state and the large companies.
in writing. it is an old battle of the csd to make the state a good person in terms of fulfilling its obligations. in february this year, a draft law on the cds was approved in parliament, which provides that the state will start to pay interest on late payment when the delay in payment exceeds the limits set out in the contract or the law (30 or 60 days). for several years now, the cds has also advocated the possibility of offsetting claims between debts owed by the state to enterprises and debts owed by enterprises to social security or taxation, thus seeking to make life easier for enterprises which, not being paid by the state, are nevertheless faced with the obligation to pay their tax and social contributions. we are therefore fully in line with the text now being adopted, which establishes an average period of 30 days for the payment of debts owed by the state to its suppliers (this period may be extended to 60 days in specific cases) and the obligation to pay interest for late payment. these are rules of the utmost fairness which can help to alleviate the situation of many businesses, especially smes.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i listened to you very carefully, madam commissioner, and from what i have heard i feel i should say that so far the most effective act of both the national and european authorities has been the management of silence. industrial accidents can and must be avoided that is also why there is european legislation, and it seems obvious that the law has been broken. there has been ineffectiveness, delayed response, and neglect of those affected, particularly the most disadvantaged. people have died and many are still living today under the threat of what may happen to their health. it is impossible to calculate the total costs and it is immoral not to take care of the victims. how is it possible - i ask you, commissioner - that we hear about news through reports from hungarian citizens, and the authorities see nothing or tell us nothing? that is why i would like to ask a few questions. how can the banks be allowed to pressure citizens with mortgaged houses in the affected area, asking them to pay what they owe, since their houses have lost value? how do you allow phone companies to cut off the only means of contact for people in the disaster area? how is the company responsible for this catastrophe back in business? and finally, commissioner, you spoke of mitigating the effects of the sludge spill. i ask you: what are the reasons for continuing to mitigate the true scale of this human tragedy? it's like we're always starting from scratch.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted. but it has also become a debate on the crucial precepts that govern our work in the european institutions. to know whether a member state is acting in good faith, whether it is providing reliable information to the european institutions, etc. and from that point on it has also become a debate about whether we, the european institutions, are able to ensure that both these principles and precepts are respected, whether we are able to speak clearly and whether we are able to be, if necessary, uncompromising in defending them. now, on the question of good faith, i think we have clear answers. there are member states, notably france, which have not acted in good faith. they repeatedly deny the existence of documents that later appear in public opinion, appear reproduced. that happened over the summer, and it's happening now with the databases. how can we say that there are no databases when we have today published on the internet, on a french website, a database called roms, with the cities of origin and various information on roma citizens, including community citizens, bucharest, belgrade, timisoara? now, the answer to the other question is also very important. the commissioner says that we have had a historic moment and that historians will recognize that the commission, for the first time, was clear. i have many questions, commissioner, and i am a historian. i have a lot of doubts because even journalists have doubts. the day after i went to the libe committee, some press, like the financial times, said that the commission was not going to take france to court. other press said it was. even today the news is that the case against france is suspended or, in other cases, that the case against france is dropped. if the commission does not speak clearly - and, of course, its words are not interpreted clearly - i want to tell you that if the commission wants to speak clearly, it has a formidable ally in parliament. if the commission hesitates, parliament will not stop pursuing this case, because this case is not going to be a case that happened over the summer and died. it will continue to be discussed in this house.
in writing. ethnic profiling is not a new practice in the member states, but has been on the rise in recent years (especially after the terrorist attacks in madrid and london). however, the only member state which has looked into this and legislated on this subject is the united kingdom. profiling within specific databases may be lawful and have legitimate purposes. however, when the criteria used for data collection focus exclusively on race, ethnicity or religion, they should be considered discriminatory and in that case illegal. it is legitimate for the authorities to carry out investigations and identity checks on their territory in order to safeguard public order and security, to prevent crime and to monitor illegal immigration. however, the physical and ethnic characteristics of the persons concerned should not be considered as an indication that they are criminals or are in an illegal situation in the country. each person must be treated individually and there must be a reason, other than the person's race or ethnicity, for their data to be entered in a database or for them to be treated differently from the general population.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner olli rehn, i would like to congratulate you in particular on the positive dialogue that parliament has had with the commission. ladies and gentlemen of the council... i would like to begin by thanking all those who worked on this report and made it possible, and in particular all the shadow rapporteurs with whom i had the opportunity to exchange views and reach consensus, a task which is often difficult, with various tendencies within this parliament, from left to right, from those who advocated more sovereignty or a more modern sovereignty, from those who advocated certain institutions. so many opinions have been given. but they were given with one objective in mind: the objective of finding solutions to the present crisis. the crisis has shown that europe has not responded in time. he often didn't answer well. the crisis has shown that many governments within the european union still maintain a policy which is not based on the truth of the facts. and that is precisely what we need solutions for, solutions which the european parliament can give with its own voice, with a firm voice. some of these are short-term solutions, some of them are long-term solutions. we have made eight recommendations in principle. the idea of multilateral surveillance of macroeconomic developments in the member states and the european union in order to better achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, with a view to a europe of growth, with a view to strengthening a pact that is stability but also growth. there are also proposals to strengthen the stability and growth pact and to look particularly closely at what is happening with regard to debt. the strengthening of economic governance in the euro area by the eurogroup, the establishment of a robust and credible programme to prevent excessive debt and a resolution mechanism for the euro area which may involve the establishment of a european monetary fund. the idea of revising the budgetary, financial and fiscal instruments of the european union, financial market regulation and supervision with a clear macroeconomic dimension and the improvement of statistics within the european union. finally, the idea of better representation of the union in economic and monetary matters. on all these matters parliament has, or can have, a strong voice. we want the european parliament and the national parliaments to have better coordination at institutional level. we can help to make this solution more effective in dealing with future crises or difficulties. from this point on, europe has the tools to respond better economically. and parliament has contributed a great deal to that, and it will continue to do so. we are now at the beginning of a legislative debate on six proposals which have been put forward by the commission and on which i believe that parliament will maintain its own position. i would also like to say that it is strange that in a recent council document presented just yesterday, there was no mention of parliament's position and the dialogue which parliament had with the council. but i would like to say one thing: the european parliament maintains its positions, regardless of our differences. the european parliament is committed to a strong europe, to better economic governance, to more growth and to greater prosperity.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the consumer in respect of the placing on the market of consumer goods. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all recognise that the short- and long-term macroeconomic variables in the european union have not been controlled, particularly in the budgetary framework and the accumulated national debt. the crisis has highlighted the need to strengthen the single market, taking account of the monti and grech proposals. developing electronic and cross-border trade, simplifying online payment processes, standardising products and services, harmonising tax instruments are essential to build consumer confidence and boost the economy. the union must emerge from the crisis in a sustainable way, ensuring solid growth and responsible budgets, but also employment objectives. indicators such as the unemployment rate and the employment rate of the labour force must be included in the monitoring system. the indicators that will measure the progress of strategy 2020 cannot be forgotten either. the feasibility study on the issue of common european bonds could be an opportunity to deepen and implement financial instruments for defence against speculation. we wish we could have gone beyond a simple study. the creation of the european monetary fund deserves our support and we see it not only as a disciplinary instrument but above all as a means of reducing speculative manipulation of sovereign debt markets. cooperation with the rapporteur, mr feio, was fruitful and a comprehensive, balanced and rich text was achieved.
mr president, the declarations made by germany and france in the so-called deauville agreement are not only inadmissible and show the true face of those who give the orders in defence of the economic and financial groups, but also reveal impatience, arrogance and aggressiveness in the face of the response of the workers and the populations affected by their neoliberal and anti-social policies of the eec or competition policy, whether in greece, france, spain or portugal, where a general strike is also planned for 24 november. it is time for those responsible in the european union to recognize the failure of these neoliberal policies which are increasing unemployment, social inequalities, poverty and causing recession in the countries with the weakest economies, where community impositions can lead to a real social disaster. unfortunately, that's not what's happening. all the promises to end tax havens, to tax financial transactions properly, to end speculative financial products have fallen by the wayside. so here we are, protesting, giving voice to the many millions of workers threatened with poverty, the unemployed, the elderly with misery benefits, the unemployed youth and children at risk of poverty who want to deny a future with dignity. it is time to break with these policies and have a real social europe, a europe of progress and development.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mr feio for the work of reconciliation and the spirit of compromise which he has instilled in his report. but the conclusion we have reached is that parliament, in certain cases, and this has also happened in financial supervision, is able to come together and is able to take a strong position defending the interests of the citizen, and this strong position must be recognised by the commission and the council. and this is particularly relevant at a time when a legislative package of six extremely sensitive proposals is being launched and on many of which this parliament has co-decision powers. we will be equally active, but without concessions. our spirit is one of dialogue, but not of overstepping the objectives we intend to defend. and in this respect the ugly report highlights some aspects which are of some importance. one is that economic governance is more than a package of sanctions. growth and employment need their own initiatives. initiatives are needed to combat the growing internal divisions within the european union. we need concrete proposals on the european monetary fund. stable solutions to sovereign debt are needed. we are at a time when confidence depends on the ability of the commission and the council to respond to the real aspirations of the citizens, and those are unemployment, growth and cohesion.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs berès and all those who have worked together to produce the report we are discussing today. in the context of this report, a commission work, i have prepared a thematic contribution highlighting the crucial role of smes as a driving force for the recovery of the european union and future growth and well-being. in fact, there are more than 20 million small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union. so if each of them could create one job, that would mean an equivalent reduction in unemployment. the document makes recommendations as economic strategies for overcoming the crisis. i'll highlight the main ones. the first is the need to strengthen the social market economy by avoiding restrictions on competition and ensuring access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises. the granting of tax incentives, and even subsidies, to smes to maintain and create jobs. the creation of a new small business act with a stronger social dimension. the establishment of a european network of senior consultants to disseminate their knowledge. innovation as the most powerful engine of economic growth and, as such, the essential nature of an organic link between industry and innovation. the establishment of new partnerships between industry and academia and, finally, the creation of an education system suited to the needs of the labour market demand, but also the need to create new skills for the new jobs.
mr president, since the franco-german directory has not yet taken its place in this chamber, i have three questions to put to the commission and the council about the recent sanctions rage. the first question is about the idea of interest deposits. why the hell and what is the rationale for adding deficit to deficit to combat deficit? the second question is whether it is possible to suspend the structural funds, which can only have the effect of mortgaging growth in the medium and long term. then raise the interest on the debt. so, increase the short-term deficit. and i have a third question left. what if there were penalties for stupidity and the sin of arrogance?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to begin by thanking all the members for the contributions they have made up to the end of the debate. this is the time to move from words to deeds. from now on, and after the vote which i hope will be a positive one, parliament will have its own position on the subject of economic governance. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i am advocating economic governance as a 27 target for growth. with better coordination between all the member states of the european union, with more economic and monetary union. finally, i would like to say that i am in favour of a europe which is more united, more prepared and more effective. a europe of all, with different voices but a single discourse. a europe with the positions of the council, the commission and the european parliament. the europe of economic governance is not the europe of two-man summits. it is the europe of institutional voices. it is europe in the european parliament, the voice of the european citizens. i would like to stress the essential role that this parliament and the national parliaments must play in this matter, with their own views on the macroeconomic surveillance that needs to be carried out in relation to the states. with a voice of its own in the way the eu 2020 strategy is implemented. i would also like to draw attention to the question of strengthening the stability and growth pact. parliament has a different set of proposals to the other institutions. it is time, then, mr president, i am going to finish, that we discuss the proposals on the table with strength and unity.
in writing. once and for all, the eu and its leaders will have to realize that the deep crisis we are experiencing was not imported from the usa! it is a systemic crisis, of capitalism in its current stage of development - neoliberalism. so in the eu, this is a crisis of the foundations of the eu itself which has in neoliberalism one of its essential pillars. in the face of the disastrous results of their policies, the powers which have essentially determined the course of the eu are displaying a disturbing arrogance and aggressiveness, seeking to impose, particularly on the workers and peoples of the most vulnerable countries, unacceptable civilizational setbacks by means of an intolerable attack on their sovereignty. this is the meaning of the joint declaration which germany and france decided to make in deauville before the g20 and the european council. they seem to ignore that deepening the path that brought us here can only lead to disgrace. this is the message that is echoing throughout europe in the struggles of the workers and the peoples! it's time to listen to them! the real answer to the crisis lies in the appreciation of labour and a fairer distribution of income (particularly by taxation), benefiting labour at the expense of capital.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the revision of the framework agreement governing relations between the european parliament and the european commission in the light of the treaty of lisbon, because i believe that this revision creates a relationship of greater transparency and dynamism in the relationship between parliament and the commission. until the treaty of lisbon and in accordance with the legal basis of article 295 tfeu, the treaties did not explicitly encourage the eu institutions to conclude interinstitutional agreements. i therefore consider that this revision of the framework agreement reflects the institutional balance created by the treaty of lisbon and consolidates the achievements of this new treaty. this text thus represents a compromise between the two parties and provides for a more consistent and sensible application of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i welcome the success of the negotiations and the compromise solutions reached in this new framework agreement, the fifth interinstitutional agreement, between the european parliament and the commission. this new agreement represents an undeniable and important step forward in relations with the commission. although the compromise solution agreed fell short of parliament's ambitions, we are faced with an agreement which ensures a coherent and sensible application of the lisbon treaty. i would stress the importance of negotiations on the interinstitutional dimension of the eu's international relations, allowing parliament to be fully informed in good time so that it can express its views on international agreements in the course of the negotiation process. finally, as regards the obligation to inform, i would stress that early cooperation with parliament on requests for legislative initiatives based on citizens' petitions will be crucial to ensure the link between parliament and citizens. i therefore vote in favour of most of the proposals in this report.
in writing. − interinstitutional agreements at eu level are essential for effective supervision, control and balance of power. i am therefore pleased to see the european parliament, with its increased powers, in its relationship with the commission, following the necessary adjustments provided for by the treaty of lisbon. this, as reflected in this report, means greater and more effective control over the european commission's proposals, greater transparency in the legislative process. this is another step towards the existence of a democratic power which is actually exercised and which will contribute to a europe closer to the citizens. i should also like to stress the considerable negotiating effort required by this proposal, in particular by the rapporteur, mr paulo rangel. i would like to congratulate him on his achievements.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this resolution and welcome the excellent work of rapporteur paulo rangel. this report reflects and shapes the institutional balance established by the lisbon treaty, resulting in a clear and significant improvement in relations with the commission. the revised draft framework agreement on relations between parliament and the commission is the fifth such agreement concluded between the two institutions. as regards the legislative procedure and programming, it is important to highlight the amendments relating to the better regulation approach and the announcement of a review of the interinstitutional agreement on this subject, and the new regulation on impact studies carried out by the commission. as regards the interinstitutional dimension of the eu's international relations, parliament's objective is to have the right to be informed so that it can give its informed consent and to avoid international agreements not being concluded when negotiations have already been concluded. i would also like to stress the fact that members of parliament have been granted observer status at international conferences, which means that they can also attend all relevant meetings. this role is key to strengthening parliament's democratic powers, especially during the negotiation of major international conferences such as the united nations climate change conferences.
in writing. − with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, relations between the european parliament and the commission have undergone a major change, with the increase of parliament's powers in a number of areas, notably in the ordinary legislative procedure and in budgetary matters, and also strengthening its role in the eu's external policy. with these changes, the european citizen is given a new role in eu decision-making. in this connection, it is necessary and appropriate to revise the framework agreement governing relations between the european parliament and the commission.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the report on the review of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission and its adoption in plenary, to which it has contributed as a key framework for deepening the democratization of the european union through a division of powers between the ec and the ep that is more respectful of their respective competences. this framework agreement is particularly important as it is the first since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon to give the european parliament increased powers, especially at legislative level. i believe that under this new framework agreement the european parliament is becoming a more active partner in the construction of the european project and is able to exercise its powers more fully, effectively and responsibly.
in writing. − having approved the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, it is natural that the rules of procedure of the european parliament should be adapted to the above-mentioned framework agreement. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i agree with the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament to bring them into line with the revised framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. given the openness of the commission to provide more information to members, it is agreed that members should commit themselves to respecting the european parliament's rules on the handling of confidential information. the commission's openness to providing members with more information requires that the chairmen and rapporteurs of the committee responsible and, where appropriate, of the associated committees take appropriate measures jointly to ensure that parliament is immediately, regularly and fully informed, if necessary on a confidential basis, at all stages of the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements, including the draft negotiating directives and the final text adopted thereunder.
in writing. − with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, relations between the european parliament and the commission have undergone a major change, with the increase of parliament's powers in a number of areas, notably in the ordinary legislative procedure and in budgetary matters, and also strengthening its role in the eu's external policy. with these changes, the european citizen is given a new role in eu decision-making. in this connection, it is necessary and appropriate to adapt parliament's rules of procedure to the revised framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission.
in writing. - the adaptation of the rules of procedure of the european parliament to the revised framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission follows naturally from the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, allowing the transition from the establishment of the framework agreement to its effective implementation to be carried out in the shortest possible time, as would be required and thus ensured. the above and the correspondence between the two reports justify my approval of the latter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rangel reports a7-0278/2010 and a7-0279/2010. however, i strongly disagree with the rapporteur's assumption that the treaty of lisbon significantly deepens democracy in the eu, giving citizens of the union, mainly through the parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the commission.
in writing. - i am in favour of the general measures proposed in this report, which aim to give the eeas a culture of financial viability necessary for confidence in the smooth and undisputed future functioning of the eeas. the diversity of staff backgrounds will make the eeas a melting pot of corporate cultures, and the eeas will have to gradually establish its own culture. in defining the structure of this new service, it is important to establish its financial arrangements and to ensure from the outset all possible safeguards, so that financial probity and integrity are an integral part of the eeas's corporate culture. i would also like to stress that in order to ensure democratic control and to increase citizens' confidence in their institutions, a declaration of reliability of the management and internal control systems set up in the union delegations should be submitted annually to the european parliament.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to amend the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the communities in the light of the institutionalisation of the european external action service following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon by the member states. the new entity lacks a budgetary framework and this change is therefore justified. the european external action service's status as an institution gives it budgetary autonomy and the power to implement its own administrative expenditure, subject to discharge by the european parliament. i hope that the european external action service will carry out its work in a competent, effective, complementary and, above all, non-competitive manner with the diplomatic representations of the member states. the european commission has stated in this connection that it intends to ensure a unified role in the field of external action, without prejudice to sound financial management, accountability and the protection of the union's financial interests. i pray that it is.
in writing. the new european external action service, set up after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, lacks a budget to develop its activities and achieve the objectives set out in the treaty. to that end, it is necessary to amend certain provisions of the applicable financial regulation in order to take account of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the european external action service is an essential instrument for a european union that is open to the world and able to establish fruitful contacts with the most diverse regions and countries. for this important service to function, it is essential to provide its staff with the necessary framework and to clarify its status and that of the temporary agents from the national diplomatic services who will be working in it. this amendment to the staff regulations of officials of the european communities and to the conditions of employment of other servants is therefore fully justified. i hope that the office will work in complementarity with national diplomatic services and will be a positive factor in enhancing their action. i hope that the major priorities of european policy will not overlook the external component of its existence and that in the course of its work the office will not overlook the crucial role of the european languages of universal communication or global european languages which are the most suitable for enabling direct communication with much of the world.
in writing. − the european external action service is now an integral part of the european administration, open, efficient and independent in accordance with article 298 tfeu. in amending the rules applicable to officials and other servants of the european communities, i emphasise the equal status of eu officials and temporary staff from the diplomatic services of the member states, in particular as regards eligibility to take up all posts on equivalent terms and the promotion of equal opportunities for the under-represented gender.
in writing. − the european external action service works in collaboration with the diplomatic services of the member states and is composed of officials from the relevant services of the general secretariat of the council and the commission and seconded staff from the national diplomatic services of the member states. the eeas should therefore be considered an institution of the union for the purposes of the staff regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants. officials of the european union and temporary staff from the diplomatic services of the member states should therefore have the same rights and duties and be treated equally, in particular as regards eligibility to take up all posts on equivalent terms. that is why the amendment proposed in this resolution is necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution because i agree that it is crucial that the eu can use all its external instruments within a coherent framework, and that the provision of budgetary resources in 2010 to establish this framework at its initial stage is the political aim of this report.
in writing. - the budgetary instruments need to be adapted to the new reality of the european external action service. i therefore believe that the efforts made to ensure that the appropriations for its powers are adequate, that its action is efficient and effective as intended and that its expenditure is effectively controlled are fully justified. the european institutions and the member states should pay particular attention to the early days of the european external action service in order to be able to monitor its activities and identify its main problems.
in writing. - this proposal for an amending budget is necessary in the context of the implementation of the treaty of lisbon, in order to make it possible to implement and operate the european external action service. it is therefore an initiative which i support and which it is important to ensure, within the principles of efficient management of european resources, emphasizing the good balance between cost and benefit, as well as the imperatives of budgetary restraint due to the impact of the economic crisis on public finances.
in writing. - our vote against this report, which represents a further step towards the establishment and operation of the european external action service (eeas), is consistent with our opposition to the creation of this service. a central point of the lisbon treaty and a cornerstone of federalism in the european union, it will involve more than 5 000 people in the future 130 eu embassies in countries around the world. a diplomatic mega-structure which will inevitably subordinate the representations and interests of the member states, placing, here too, the interests of the powers which have determined the course of the eu above them. moreover, the eeas's non-connection with military and intelligence structures is not guaranteed. the european union is not a military power, but a political power. the question is also, in a budget as extremely small as the eu's, where will the contributions to meet this expenditure come from? all this at a time when the effects of the crisis are being exacerbated by so-called austerity policies, when enormous pressure is being put on national budgets, when wages and social benefits are being cut and taxes on labour income are being increased.
in writing. - following the amendment of the staff regulations and an amendment to the financial regulation to incorporate the creation of the european external action service into these documents, it is now necessary to adopt a budget for its proper functioning. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution because i agree that it is crucial that the eu can use all its external instruments within a coherent framework and that the provision of budgetary resources in 2010 to establish this framework at its initial stage is the political aim of this report.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the annual allocation for financial assistance for accompanying measures in the banana sector was eur 75 million in 2010, with the largest part of this financial assistance coming from a reallocation of heading 4 of the budget, which was eur 55.8 million, and that in 2011 this heading is only eur 875 530, agrees with the ep's proposal to invite the commission to submit a new proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument for the remaining part of eur 74 124 470. this proposal is justified by the need for financial assistance for accompanying measures in the banana sector, especially if we consider that eu financial assistance to acp banana suppliers affected by the liberalisation resulting from the most favoured nation status in the wto must be guaranteed if the eu wishes to maintain its influence as a global player. it is also worth mentioning that it makes perfect sense to make this proposal viable, given that these measures are provided for in point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement on the use of the flexibility instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution for agreeing that eu financial assistance to acp banana suppliers affected by the liberalisation resulting from the most favoured nation status in the wto should not be called into question and that the budgetary effort should not be delayed. i therefore support the commission's proposal to propose an amendment to regulation (ec, euratom) no 1905/2006 to enable the financing of accompanying measures in the banana sector for the years 2010 to 2013 with an overall budget of eur 190 million, and possibly an additional eur 10 million if the margins allow.
in writing. the commission proposes an amendment to regulation (ec, euratom) no 1905/2006 to finance the banana sector follow-up measures for the years 2010 to 2013 with an overall budget of eur 190 million. the proposed annual breakdown is eur 75 million in 2010. it should be noted that the margin available under heading 4 is only eur 875 530. the largest part of this financial assistance in 2010 comes from a reallocation within budget heading 4 (eur 55.8 million out of a total of eur 75 million) which concerns instruments and actions that the eu and, in particular, the european parliament have identified as being of high interest. moreover, the need for financial assistance linked to the accompanying measures in the banana sector was not foreseen when the current multiannual financial framework was adopted. however, eu financial assistance to acp banana suppliers affected by the liberalisation resulting from the most favoured nation (mfn) status in the wto should not be called into question and the budgetary effort should not be delayed. i therefore agree with the amendment to draft amending budget no 3/2010 as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. the report sets out the measures needed for financial assistance to acp countries which will be affected by the liberalisation of banana trade between the eu and 11 latin american countries, in which the eu commits not to apply quantitative restrictions or measures having equivalent effect to the importation of bananas into its territory. when the geneva agreement was signed, which provides for this liberalisation, the eu committed to channelling eur 200 million to the acp countries as compensation for the impact this measure would have on their exports to the eu. we criticised this agreement at the time, which will mainly benefit the us multinationals which dominate the world market in this sector. several acp countries and several acp banana producers expressed concern at the consequences of the agreement, considering that the eur 200 million would not compensate for all the impacts of the agreement. the report now foresees an overall budget of €190 million, and possibly an additional €10 million if margins allow. in addition, the impacts on eu banana producing countries and regions, such as the autonomous region of madeira, have not been adequately addressed. for these reasons we abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. - the eu has always been concerned with helping developing countries, particularly the acp countries. in the specific case dealt with in this draft amending budget, the acp banana-producing countries. this extraordinary aid comes as part of the liberalisation of banana trade between the eu and 11 latin american banana-producing countries. this form of aid is, in our opinion, better and more effective than direct aid with funds, to be applied without criteria. by helping the banana sector in these countries, we are helping them to develop their economies, create jobs and fight poverty.
in writing. - i welcome the draft budget for 2011, which is being discussed today, because it covers exactly the priorities set out. for the first time, parliament is on an equal footing with the council in these matters. this is the first budget since the treaty of lisbon. for this reason, and because of the crisis europe is going through, it will be important for the conciliation process to be successful. it is essential that the eu has a budget for the implementation of the priority areas and the new competences conferred by the treaty. it is important that we fight for our convictions and for a budget that is visionary in times of crisis. parliament's proposal reflects this ambition. the figures proposed by the council reflect the austerity of the budgets adopted at national level in the eu. however, the eu must have the capacity to react to policy changes brought about by major challenges. the eu has a duty to present an ambitious european budget that contributes to economic recovery. only by strengthening areas such as science and innovation, which contribute to economic growth and more and better jobs, can we make europe a more attractive place to live and work.
in writing. − against the backdrop of a fragile recovery in the euro area and weak public finances in many member states, a budget used wisely can stabilise and stimulate the recovery of the economy, although it must be used wisely. as regards citizens, there was an increase in the competitiveness heading for growth and jobs and also in the cohesion heading for growth and jobs, although there was a reduction in education and training. the committee stresses the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a timely manner and that the commission's proposals are implemented in a timely manner. in the field of regional development, there is an increase of 3.2%, which is considered to be fundamental. as regards agriculture, the extreme volatility of the dairy sector should be recalled, and the need for a permanent approach to tackling this issue, in particular through a milk fund, should be emphasised. as regards fisheries, there is a reduction in the amounts allocated to the cfp, which is regrettable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on agreeing with the ep's horizontal priorities for the 2011 budget, the areas of youth, education and mobility, which require, within the various policies, specific cross-sectoral investment as a means of promoting eu growth and development. i agree with the proposed increase in appropriations for all programmes related to these priorities, namely the lifelong learning, people and erasmus mundus programmes. i also agree that the employment mobility of young people is an essential instrument for ensuring the development of a competitive and dynamic labour market in europe and as such needs to be strengthened. i am in favour of increasing the appropriations for the european employment service and to this end i strongly support the launch of the preparatory action your first eures job, which aims to help young people to enter the labour market or to access skilled jobs in another member state as a first step towards a specific non-academic youth mobility programme.
in writing. − the community budget is essential for the development of the activities of the european union and, especially in times of crisis, for the effective allocation of funds relating to cohesion policy. i believe that the council should not arbitrarily reduce, as has been noted, priorities such as the money allocated to innovation, and with the objectives of growth and competitiveness. the council cut 0.55 per cent in commitment appropriations and 2.77 per cent in payment appropriations, approving a final budget of eur 141.8 billion for commitment appropriations and eur 126.5 billion for payment appropriations, which could be particularly critical if it impacts european growth and competitiveness. i therefore support the european parliament's maintaining the initial funds allocated to those areas.
in writing. - with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the distinction between compulsory expenditure (co) and non-compulsory expenditure (nce) has been abolished, meaning that the ep and the council are now jointly responsible for all eu expenditure, on which they decide jointly. in addition, the annual budgetary procedure becomes a special legislative procedure (the budget is adopted by means of a regulation) which may be considered a special codecision procedure or, to avoid confusion, a joint decision of the ep and the council. the 2011 budget that parliament is proposing is ambitious, smart, committed, rigorous and realistic. we have given priority to policies relating to youth, education, mobility, training, research, competitiveness and innovation. i would like to highlight the preparatory action your first eures job, in which i was personally involved, which will promote the mobility of young people in the european union and make it possible to combat unemployment. this budget still amounts to about 1% of gross national income. the need for revision of the multiannual financial framework is clearly demonstrated, given the low margins of its headings, and in particular headings 1a, 3b and 4. the urgency of the debate on the need for new own resources for the community budget is also clear.
in writing. − we share the criticism of the arbitrary cuts and reductions made by the council to the draft budget, leaving it some eur 7 billion below what was agreed in the 2007-13 multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2011. this is all the more unacceptable as the mff is already an extremely meagre figure, which compromises any objective of economic and social cohesion and thus accentuates the harmful effects of the policies pursued by the eu. we therefore share the view that a substantial budgetary review is absolutely necessary, as is an immediate review of the ceilings of the current mff. but we cannot accept that, on the basis of this fair criticism, the budget should be made more lisbon-like, as the report says, and kept in the service of the basic pillars of the lisbon treaty - neoliberalism, federalism and militarism - that is, in the service of the same policies which have generated the profound crisis facing the workers and peoples of europe today. what is needed, starting from the necessary strengthening of the community budget - on the basis of contributions from the member states in proportion to their gni - is a break with these policies and a genuine commitment to cohesion, social progress and the preservation of the environment.
in writing. − the entry into force of the tfeu has strengthened eu policies and created new areas of competence, including common foreign and security policy, competitiveness and innovation, space, tourism, the fight against climate change, social policy, energy policy, justice and home affairs. these new powers imply a budget to enable them to be implemented and therefore require all branches of the budgetary authority to be coherent and consistent with regard to increased financial capacity. we must therefore provide the community budget with the necessary funds to achieve the objectives set for 2014 so that the 2020 strategy is not compromised. it is true that in this crisis scenario, member states are resistant to increased co-financing, but they must be sensitive to the eu's intentions and the need not to call into question all that has already been achieved in terms of cohesion and integration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on agreeing to the ep's horizontal priorities for the 2011 budget, in particular in the areas of youth, education and mobility, which require specific cross-sectoral investment, across the various policies, as a means of promoting eu growth and development. i agree with the proposed increase in appropriations for all programmes related to these priorities, namely the lifelong learning, people and erasmus mundus programmes. i also believe that the employment mobility of young people is an essential instrument for ensuring the development of a competitive and dynamic labour market in europe and as such needs to be strengthened. i am therefore in favour of increasing the appropriations for the european employment service and i strongly support the launch of the preparatory action your first eures job, which aims to help young people to enter the labour market or to access skilled jobs in another member state, as a first step towards a specific non-academic youth mobility programme.
in writing. - this is the first budget of the union to be voted in accordance with the rules of the lisbon treaty, with only one reading. although there are still some sensitive points left for conciliation, and they concern matters which i consider of the utmost importance, such as the allocation for cohesion and for agriculture, i welcome the proposal put forward. the adopted document restores the commission's initial proposal for the cohesion for growth and employment section, after the council had reduced the amount allocated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i also welcome the appropriations allocated under the competitiveness for growth and employment heading, which includes the provision for financing most of parliament's proposals, such as those relating to smes and the youth, education and mobility programmes. i am voting in favour of the document, although it does not include the ppe's proposals for intervention measures on cereals, milk and milk products and powdered milk, which were unfortunately rejected by the agri committee.
in writing. - the extension of maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks should be considered a fundamental right. this new period should not be seen as a threat, even in view of the introduction of parental rights. the consequences for the legislative framework of the various member states are not very significant, nor are they economic, if we consider for example the possibility of creating a temporary work grant at european level, which promotes professional mobility, which can stimulate the sharing of best practices and the continuation of the professional tasks of women on maternity leave. the guarantee of 100% monthly salary on maternity leave and the extension of the period of the ban on dismissal from six months to one year should not be called into question, taking into account demographic concerns reconciled with the current economic situation. other simple but important measures include the possibility of flexible working hours after maternity leave, preventive health and safety measures and the extension of these rights to couples adopting children, which favours a fairer legal framework.
in writing. − this proposal aims to improve the safety and health conditions associated with parenting. in this respect, i believe that we must reduce the disparities between men and women and promote a balanced reconciliation of professional life with family and private life. only then will there be the fostering of a parenting with shared responsibilities. on this basis, i believe that the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks, of which 6 weeks must be after childbirth, as proposed by the rapporteur, is an appropriate period, with the possibility of sharing it between the parents. i also welcome the proposal in the document to guarantee full payment of the monthly salary during maternity leave, with the benefit being 100% of the last salary or the average monthly salary. finally, i think it is appropriate that the same measures should also be applied in cases of adoption of a child under 12 years of age and that they should also be aimed at self-employed women. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the report in plenary.
in writing. - i generally agree with the measures proposed in this report, as i consider this issue to be one of the most important challenges that europe will have to overcome in the coming decades: the ageing of the population. for example, in portugal, which i know better. but, like other countries in the union, the birth rate does not guarantee the renewal of generations and presents a harsh reality that jeopardizes the future. i believe that more flexible policies on maternity and paternity leave could help to reverse these trends. it is therefore important to send families a consistent message of support for motherhood and fatherhood, with concrete measures for a better reconciliation of work, private and family life. meeting this challenge is essential to achieve the economic and social objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and as a way of trying to reverse the demographic ageing of our continent. in portugal too, maternity leave is already paid at 100% for 120 days. i therefore support the idea of women being paid during maternity leave, as expressed in this report.
in writing. − the csd has long regarded the issue of births as a priority for the state and recognises that it is not possible to stimulate births without protecting parentality. it is not new that our programmes have chapters devoted to the family and birth. it is also not new that we defend the rights of mothers and fathers to form a family without this representing an increased burden or difficulties in work. family and birth-friendly policies, such as those we advocate, are, however, transversal and do not limit themselves to extending maternity leave (a measure we applaud, as we advocated in our 2009 government programme an extension to 6 months of parental leave). that is why we are pleased to see the ps in the european parliament standing with us in defence of mothers and fathers, a position which is so different from that which this party has in national politics, when it cuts in family allowances, in the sharing of medicines for chronic patients, in deductions from the irs for education and health expenditure or when it dramatically increases the tax burden on citizens, especially on families with children and lower incomes.
in writing. − the eu is facing a demographic challenge, characterised by low birth rates and a growing proportion of older people. improving work-life balance provisions helps to respond to this demographic decline. in portugal, the birth rate does not ensure the renewal of generations and reveals a reality that jeopardizes the future. i therefore believe that to counteract this trend, the improvement of the safety and health of pregnant, breastfeeding and lactating workers must be promoted, which means promoting a balanced reconciliation of working life with family and private life. i agree with the rapporteur's position and with the amendments introduced, such as the extension of the minimum period of maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks; the principle of equal pay for equal work; the establishment of health and safety requirements at the workplace; and the ban on dismissals. i also agree that in the case of adoption, the right to a period of leave, shared between both members of the couple, should also be recognised.
in writing. - the positive vote on the report on improving the safety and health of pregnant workers, women who have recently given birth or who are breastfeeding at work is the culmination of a long process of discussion in the european parliament, which had already begun in the previous legislature and in which we actively participated by contributing to its adoption. although we are still at the first reading of the proposal for a directive, it is a positive sign in the area of women's rights, especially for those countries which do not yet have 20 weeks of fully paid maternity leave or which do not yet apply two weeks of fully paid paternity leave. the adoption of this proposal for negotiation with the council recognizes the fundamental social value of motherhood and fatherhood, in respect of the rights of working women who wish to assume motherhood. the adoption of this proposal also represents a victory over the more conservative positions that persist in this european parliament, which means that the fight will continue in defence of women's rights, maternity and paternity rights, the rights of the child. we now hope that the council will accept this position of the european parliament, which increases the european commission's proposal from 18 to 20 weeks and aims to amend the current directive still in force which only provides for 14 weeks of maternity leave.
in writing. the report adopted proposes a maternity leave of 20 weeks without loss of pay. this measure alone could represent a huge social improvement in the lives of women in about two thirds of the countries in the union. this is the case in portugal, where women are entitled to only 16 weeks of full pay. the inclusion of two weeks of paternity leave is also an important step in the fight for equality between women and men. more importantly, this report is adopted against the backdrop of the measures recently adopted as a result of austerity policies, which favour cutting public spending and reducing social rights. i hope that this report will thus contribute to strengthening labour and social rights in the union and in all the member states.
in writing. − there is consensus in the eu that one of its main problems is low population growth, in the face of low birth rates. so anything that helps to change this situation is very important. the protection of pregnant and breastfeeding women at work and the reduction of the disparities between men and women are important steps in this direction. despite the crisis we are going through, the measures adopted here today are very important to reverse, in the near future, the demographic downward trend facing the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposals for implementing measures to promote the improvement of the safety and health of pregnant workers, women who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, including a 20-week maternity leave and a two-week paternity leave, both without reduction of pay. these are social measures which correspond to the europe we want to have, aimed at supporting births, the family, the health of babies, the employment of parents. it is, however, a project which is difficult to implement and which may perversely aggravate discrimination against women in the world of employment because: (1) it places additional pressure on social security systems which, in many cases, are already on the verge of sustainability; the new system of wage-setting is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women, and (2) it introduces new constraints on the labour market, which no longer meets the needs of the current working population. i am therefore afraid that these measures to support working parents will lead to an increase in unemployment and/or precarious work among young women. the negotiations between parliament and the council must be realistic and pragmatic, and also ambitious, if the future law is to be in line with the values of the proposal voted on in plenary this week.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because there is a great disparity in many countries as regards the conditions for paying companies, when the state, smes and large companies are involved. we know that in this situation of economic crisis and increased difficulties, companies are increasingly struggling with liquidity problems and are even at increased risk of bankruptcy in many member states. the directive which sought to regulate this matter had limited effects, so the proposal we have now adopted represents an important step forward in fixing and complying with payment deadlines, not only in relations between companies and public bodies but also in the relations which companies establish among themselves. we will now have legislation that makes it more effective to meet payment deadlines, with a clear system of penalties for delays and that also brings us an effective improvement in the balance of the abuse of a dominant position that the state and large companies often exercise over smes. this directive must now be transposed rapidly by the member states so that the serious problems caused by the introduction of long payment periods and delays in payments can finally be solved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on combating late payment in commercial transactions, as it will allow the adoption of harmonised measures which, in the current economic crisis, may be particularly important for the performance of companies, in particular smes. however, i think it is good that a derogation system for the health sector is guaranteed.
in writing. − late payment is a problem with extremely serious consequences for the health of the world economy and whose impacts are particularly devastating for small and medium-sized enterprises. this is a reality of even more pernicious effects in this current period of economic and financial crisis. the bad example of the public administration, as is particularly the case in portugal, is unacceptable. measures to curb late payments in commercial transactions are needed to safeguard the health of the european economy, avoiding financial suffocation of productive structures and overburdening the use of financing products that increase dependence on the banking sector. i would like to draw attention to the particular case of agricultural producers, who often have to pay back payments owed to them by large areas and distributors. the maximum 30 days that can be waived up to a limit of 60 days for payment after service and invoicing is quite reasonable for the balance of trade relations and will be decisive for promoting a culture of timely fulfilment of commitments.
in writing. − late payment of commercial transactions, whether between companies or between companies and public entities, is responsible for cash flow difficulties in smes and in turn often contributes to further delays in payments, thus forming a vicious circle that is difficult to reverse. with the implementation of the new rules proposed here, we are convinced that an important step has been taken to put an end to this situation and thus help businesses to cope with this period of economic and financial crisis. the proposed sanctions are balanced and necessary and are expected to act as a deterrent to less correct commercial practices which have been adopted by commercial operators.
in writing. − the document makes a significant contribution to solving the problem of late payment in commercial transactions between companies or between companies and public entities. the initiative aims to improve the liquidity of european union companies through harmonisation. the fight against late payment is particularly welcome in the current crisis period, as long delays have a negative impact on business activities. the measure is intended to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market by urgently reforming the time limit and the penalties to be applied in the event of non-compliance. in this context, i welcome the legislative proposal which has found broad support within the epp group, to which i belong, for the stipulation of a 30-day deadline as a general deadline for payments for transactions between companies and between companies and public bodies, with the latter being able to benefit, in exceptional cases, from 60 days. i also welcome the establishment of the applicable interest rate on the basis of the ecb reference rate plus 8% in late payment situations. in my view, this measure will be a strong incentive to economic activity for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are often blocked by the bureaucratic process and whose economic performance is seriously affected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because poverty is a very serious problem affecting 85 million of our fellow europeans and should not leave anyone indifferent. it demands to be placed at the top of our priorities and deserves a collective response that guarantees a minimum of dignity for those in situations of social fragility. poverty affects our young, our old, but also our working people in an increasing way. there has been a loss of 6 million jobs in the last 2 years alone and an increase in the insufficiency and precariousness of their wages, even when they are able to stay in their jobs. we need a systemic approach to tackle and solve its causes and the problems at its origin, but we cannot at the same time dispense with immediate and urgent responses to its consequences. that is why ensuring that those who are vulnerable in our society have a minimum income for their existence and providing them with urgent responses so that they can get out of this situation is not only a necessity but above all an imperative which we must subscribe to and which must be fulfilled within a framework of responsibility and demand.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has had a huge impact on the rise in unemployment and the unbridled acceleration of the impoverishment and social exclusion of people across europe. poverty and social exclusion have reached unacceptable levels, with some 80 million european citizens living below the poverty line, of whom 19 million are children (equivalent to almost 2 in 10 children) and many others facing serious obstacles in terms of access to employment, education, housing and social and financial services. unemployment levels have also reached unprecedented levels in all member states, with a european average of 21.4%, with 1 in 5 young people unemployed. this situation is unacceptable and we must do everything in our power to help resolve the drama these people are living through. in this context, 2010 was designated the european year for combating poverty, with the aim of reinforcing the eu's political commitment to take action with a decisive impact on poverty eradication. i agree with the need for a minimum income in each member state, accompanied by a strategy for social reintegration and access to the labour market.
in writing. - not being insensitive to the very serious consequences of the current crisis for citizens, creating and/or aggravating the poverty situation of many europeans, i do not agree with the state-oriented view that seeks to solve this problem with more social benefits, in this case a minimum income, established at european level. more social benefits require more money from the state, which can only be achieved, since the state does not create wealth, by increasing its tax revenue. that means more taxes on everyone, making everyone poorer and more dependent on that same bloodsucking state. the fight against poverty must be fought on the side of employment policies and economic competitiveness. if portugal did not see several companies closing every week, it would not see so many portuguese people unemployed and in poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. as i said in this plenary session a year ago, i am in favour of a new concept of sociality within the european union, capable of ensuring a minimum standard of living for every citizen. in a social, just, developed and cohesive europe, it is urgent to ensure that measures are taken to eliminate and minimise the risks of social dumping and the deterioration of the living conditions of citizens in the face of the devastating effects of the current economic crisis. for a stronger and more united europe, we must ensure that the basic rights of citizens are protected throughout the european union. i believe that minimum standards are needed in the areas of health, education, social pensions and even the level of pay, ensuring greater uniformity in terms of employment conditions. in the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, i welcome this report as a contribution to encouraging all member states to fulfil their responsibilities for active inclusion by correcting social inequalities and marginalisation. i stress the need for a realistic balance and respect for the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore vote in favour of this report and against the proposed amendments.
in writing. - i would stress the importance of the adoption of this report, for which i was responsible in the european parliament's plenary, proposing the introduction of minimum income schemes in all eu member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. as the report says, 'the introduction of minimum income schemes in all eu member states consisting of specific measures to support people (children, adults and the elderly) with insufficient income, through a financial contribution, and guaranteeing access to essential public services is the most effective way to combat poverty, ensure an adequate standard of living and promote social integration'. the resolution adopted calls for minimum income schemes to be set at at least 60% of the median income in the member state concerned, urges the commission to draw up an action plan to accompany the implementation of a european initiative on minimum income in the member states, draws attention to the growing poverty of workers and the need to respond to this new challenge, insisting on a fair distribution of income.
in writing. − the indication of the application of the minimum income in all countries of the european union is a key measure for the fight against poverty. i therefore vote in favour of this important report. the minimum income is, however, calculated on a country-by-country basis and does not therefore contribute to social convergence in the european area. in the context of the crisis we are living in, it maintains national inequalities. more convergent social policies are therefore needed at european level for a fairer distribution of wealth. this is an important role for the eu.
in writing. − states cannot be insensitive to situations of extreme poverty and must ensure that no one is left to their own devices in situations which are often deeply degrading. so extraordinary, exceptional support in these strict cases must be considered. however, experiments in the allocation of minimum incomes, such as the portuguese one, without any really effective monitoring, and with a huge number of people registered as beneficiaries, but who could and should work, without doing so, without even trying, are a perversion of logic that must be considered. i therefore vote against the motion because the aspects of the system's sound supervision which i have described call it into question from the point of view of both financial feasibility and moral considerations.
in writing. − states cannot be insensitive to situations of extreme poverty and must ensure that no one is left to their own devices in situations which are often deeply degrading. so extraordinary, exceptional support in these strict cases must be considered. however, experiments in the allocation of minimum incomes, such as the portuguese one, without any really effective monitoring, and with a huge number of people registered as beneficiaries, but who could and should work, without doing so, without even trying, are a perversion of logic that must be considered. i therefore vote against the motion because the aspects of the proper supervision of the system which i have described call it into question from the point of view of financial feasibility and from the moral point of view.
in writing. - poverty is one of the biggest social problems in the world, to which the eu is unfortunately not immune. the long-running financial and economic crisis in which we are living has further aggravated the poverty of europeans, creating in some countries, such as portugal, a new wave of poor people who used to belong to what is commonly known as the middle class. the allocation of a minimum income is an important social measure, with a significant impact also on the economic level and expressing what many interpret as a moral obligation. it is important that this minimum income be regulated in such a way that it constitutes a lever to guide the poor to an acceptable standard of living and that it can never constitute an incentive to passivity in the face of a difficult situation, including the possibility of lack of commitment in the search for a job.
in writing. - the economic crisis has exacerbated social inequalities within the eu. at the end of 2008, some 17% of the european population, or 85 million people, were living below the poverty line. the effects of the crisis, including the increase in unemployment and the decline in job opportunities, have left many people in a difficult situation. it is essential that europe engages in the promotion of a more inclusive society through poverty eradication measures. 2010 is the 'european year for combating poverty and social exclusion' and the eu 2020 strategy sets the target of reducing by 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty. the truth is that the level of poverty affects not only social cohesion but also the economy. so, and in view of parliament's commitment to contribute to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, i consider the minimum income scheme based on 60% of the median income of the respective state to be an important contribution to social inclusion. for these reasons, and because i consider that the document highlights the need for concrete action to achieve more effective social and economic cohesion, while respecting subsidiarity, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates continuing the work of the special committee on the crisis which, since its creation, has made it possible to draw conclusions and make specific recommendations on certain points, but further work is still needed to exchange on this basis with the national parliaments, to transform these recommendations into legislative proposals and to translate the objective results into a work programme. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. all the dossiers currently open or to be opened (eu 2020 and new guidelines, economic governance, financial perspectives, regulation and supervision, reform of global governance and representation of the union) must start from the recognition of the crisis of the model. such a continuation would, inter alia, allow for the thorough follow-up of this multi-agenda, the further analysis and policy recommendations on the basis of a work programme to be defined and, on this basis, a follow-up report for the second half of 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the commission should take responsibility for ensuring the monitoring and funding of projects in the following areas: new investment in renewable energy research, development and deployment, energy efficiency, in particular in the european building stock, and more generally in the efficient use of resources; strengthening the european energy network by interconnecting national networks and distributing energy from large renewable energy production plants to consumers, as well as using new forms of energy storage and the european high voltage dc super grid (hvdc); promoting eu space infrastructures in the field of radionavigation and earth observation, with a view to fostering the provision of new eu services and the development of innovative applications, as well as facilitating the implementation of eu digital legislation and policies; providing fast internet access throughout the union, ensuring free access and fast implementation of the eu agenda and providing all citizens with safe and secure access.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations for action or initiatives to be taken, because it presents concrete measures to overcome the economic and social crisis by building a genuine european social market economy with a view to sustained growth, employment and social inclusion.
in writing. - the effects of the economic and financial crisis persist far beyond what would be desirable, with increasingly serious social repercussions. as i have said, and this report also contains some of the substance, this crisis has shown that we need more europe. in a vast area with borders open to free movement and the internal market, it has become intolerable to allow the resistance of a system of mediation, supervision and control based on the power of individual states, of limited scope and limited in the face of european and global reality. strengthening economic governance, financial supervision and the coordination of economic and monetary policies and matters by the european union institutions will ensure greater stability and greater capacity for swift and efficient action. i stress the recognition of the importance of the eu 2020 strategy, where research and innovation are central to the competitiveness of businesses and to job creation. i would stress the importance of the internal market and smes for the recovery and dynamisation of the economy, and therefore measures are needed to promote its consolidation and sustained development.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. even if it has maintained some of its proposals in the social field, its overall orientation is negative. the proposals we endorsed for the plenary were rejected, particularly in the following areas: - rejection of the commission's recent legislative proposals on economic governance, including sanctions, which will have a depressing effect on the already weak growth rates in the member states, advocating an ambitious european investment plan for employment. - to welcome the large participation in the european day of mobilization against austerity and precariousness organised by the trade unions on 29 september 2010, stressing its important political significance and expressing support for the demands for stable jobs with a living wage, strong social protection and purchasing power, the guarantee of better reforms, quality public and social services accessible to all. - strong condemnation of the role played by tax havens in encouraging and exploiting fraud, tax evasion and capital flight.
in writing. − the purpose of the committee on the financial, economic and social crisis (cris) was to identify the factors that led to the crisis, to identify what had gone wrong in the eu in preventing the crisis from occurring in advance, and to identify future measures and initiatives to avoid similar situations and to revitalise economies and finally remove the crisis scenarios that still persist in some member states. i think that the cris committee has done its job well and in this document it sets out new ways, measures and initiatives which will make the eu better prepared for future crises that may occur.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission should ensure the monitoring and funding of projects in the following areas: (1) research, development and deployment of renewable energy; (2) strengthening the european energy grid as well as the use of new forms of energy storage and the european high voltage direct current supernet (hvdc); (3) promotion of eu space infrastructures in the field of radio navigation and earth observation; (4) provision of fast internet access; (5) expansion of eu leadership in the field of cyber-health; (6) realisation of electric mobility and development of common standards for it. in the context of financial regulation, the ep should call for a system of regulation and supervision which does not leave out any financial market, financial instrument or financial institution. the commission should therefore: (1) introduce more countercyclical regulation; (2) reduce the systemic risk posed by large institutions and derivatives markets; (3) strengthen pan-european and global regulatory and supervisory frameworks; (4) investigate the use of otc transactions; (5) introduce a financial transaction tax; (6) introduce new rules on statistical data on the financial sector.
in writing. - i am sad to vote against the berès report. its first version was frankly promising, both in its analysis of the causes of the crisis and in many of the proposals for overcoming it. however, the demands of the groups on the right have in some crucial respects distorted the original report. while it is true that a number of good proposals remain, such as the creation of a european public rating agency, it is also true that the report follows the brussels consensus on economic governance. because the choice is between deficit and public debt or growth and employment, and if the report is vague on this crucial issue, i cannot support it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the commission should take responsibility for ensuring the monitoring and funding of projects, in particular in the areas of new investment in research, development and deployment of renewable energy and also the provision of fast internet access throughout the union, ensuring the swift implementation of the eu's digital agenda. in the context of financial regulation, parliament should call for a system of regulation and supervision which leaves no financial market, no financial instrument and no financial institution out of the picture. to this end, i agree that pan-european and global regulatory and supervisory structures should be strengthened.
in writing. - the european union is currently experiencing what is likely to be its most serious economic and social crisis since its inception. this poses the great challenge of finding answers to the present situation with a view to the long term. i welcome the establishment of the cris committee and this report. i support the need for economic governance mechanisms, in particular through the coordination and supervision of national policies with a view to the sustainability of public finances. i regret, however, that the european parliament is no longer involved in this strategic exercise of finding solutions to the crisis, and it is desirable that it and the national parliaments should be more closely associated in future. i would stress the importance of cohesion instruments in this process. on the one hand, the eu needs to strengthen coordination and make better use of synergies between different levels of governance and different policies. on the other hand, the territorial specificities and the asymmetrical impact of the crisis must be taken into account. as the report points out, the strength of cohesion policy in linking recovery to long-term growth lies precisely in this: it sets strategic guidelines, gives the states and regions room to implement and gives them the instruments to pursue the objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which was presented and discussed here today, as it represents a step forward in strengthening the eu, in particular by advocating the establishment of an institution such as the european monetary fund, thus leading to the establishment of a supervisor of sovereign debt developments and complementing the sgp as a mechanism of last resort for the member states. the proposal to set up a high-level group chaired by the commission and mandated to study possible institutional changes in the context of the ongoing economic governance reforms, including the possibility of creating a european common treasury, with the aim of providing the eu with its own financial resources and reducing its dependence on national transfers, as well as the preparation of a feasibility study to establish a long-term system in which member states can participate in the issuance of common european bonds, should also be underlined. thus, with a proper impact assessment and the articulation of the different legal alternatives, as well as with a clear definition of the objectives and funding of european infrastructures, the long-term strategic plans for building a more robust eu will be easier to achieve.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that a coherent and transparent framework for multilateral surveillance of macroeconomic developments in the european union and the member states should be established. i call for an annual debate to be held between the european parliament, the commission, the council and the representatives of the national parliaments on the stability and convergence programmes (scps) and the national reform programmes (nrps) and on the assessment of national economic developments as part of the european semester. calls for the establishment at national level of a mechanism to assess the implementation of the europe 2020 priorities and the achievement of the relevant national objectives included in the national reform programme, in order to support the annual assessment by the union institutions;
in writing. - it is with satisfaction and a sense of responsibility that i vote in favour of the recommendations for improving the eu's economic governance suggested in this report. noting that the eu faces fierce competition from emerging economies and that stability of public finances is vital to consolidate opportunities, boost innovation and stimulate economic growth, which are key elements of a european knowledge society; given that economic growth and the sustainability of public finances are prerequisites for the eu's economic and social stability and for long-term fiscal consolidation, the current rules of the stability and growth pact, together with their poor implementation, have proven insufficient to ensure sound fiscal and macroeconomic policies. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the stricter application of preventive measures and sanctions and to encourage the improvement of economic surveillance and governance through more accurate and comparable statistics on the economic policies and positions of the member states, in particular in the euro area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the feio report, which is the result of successful negotiations between the political groups in the european parliament and is based on a broad consensus on the need to strengthen growth and employment policies with a view to improving economic governance so as to overcome the crisis and relaunch the european economy.
in writing. − in the wake of the current economic, financial and social crisis, the european parliament has played a decisive role in providing the european union with mechanisms to ensure effective intervention, capable not only of preventing new crisis situations but above all of ensuring the stability necessary for the sustained development and cohesion of the european area. this report by mr diogo feio is intended to substantiate the european parliament's responsibility for the institutional consolidation of the union, for a more unified action in the european context and in the global economy, in defence of the interests of european citizens and their prosperity. the proposed recommendations are a highly significant qualitative development to improve the eu's economic governance, with particular emphasis on strengthening rules to promote the stability and growth of the states and the union, as well as mechanisms for preventing and also correcting and resolving problems and deviations from the community development strategy. the reliability of eu statistics is also an important element in equipping the structures and authorities with a better capacity for evaluation and decision-making. i would also stress the concern that, in addition to public deficits, excessive debt should be prevented.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis has shown that the eu needs ever stronger economic and monetary governance, so that the stability of the euro and monetary union itself are not jeopardised. the eu 2020 strategy should therefore seek to promote economic growth and create jobs, as the sharp fall in gdp, the decline in industrial production and the high number of unemployed constitute a major social and economic challenge, which only strong, harmonious and united governance can overcome. the feio report sets out the paths and strategies to be followed for a genuine strengthening of the economic governance and stability framework of the european union, with a primary focus on the euro area. examples include the establishment of a coherent and transparent supervisory framework, the strengthening of the rules of the stability and growth pact (sgp), and the strengthening of the economic governance of the euro area, among others.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider that: (1) a coherent and transparent framework for multilateral surveillance of macroeconomic developments in the european union and the member states should be established, ensuring an annual debate between the european parliament, the commission, the council and representatives of national parliaments on the stability and convergence programmes (scps) and the national reform programmes (nrps) as well as on the assessment of national economic developments; and (2) a mechanism should be set up at national level to assess the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy priorities and the achievement of the relevant national objectives included in the national reform programme, in support of the annual assessment by the union institutions. i also believe that the rules of the stability and growth pact should be strengthened with a view to: (1) taking greater account of the level of indebtedness and the debt profile, its dynamics, the rate of convergence of the member states' specific ofmps, to be included in the sgp; (2) encouraging the establishment of early warning mechanisms for budgetary control at national level; (3) establishing pre-specified and preventive mechanisms in the euro area, both for the preventive and for the corrective strand of the sgp.
in writing. the report by diogo feio deals with the central issue of european economic coordination, seeking to guide the commission's legislative documents, and is discussed 24 hours after the position of the franco-german directorate on the subject is known. the positive suggestions contained in the report are decisively coordinated, either by the franco-german position or by the proposals for automatic sanctions already present in the texts of the commission and the council task force. the report does not break with the sanctioning discipline in vogue in the brussels consensus, it only seeks to relax it. this consensus is not revocable. it can only be replaced by a new system which puts employment and the correction of the great inequalities at the centre of economic coordination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that a coherent and transparent framework for multilateral surveillance of macroeconomic developments in the european union and the member states should be established.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in the european union has not worked as well as it should have. it is therefore necessary, in order to prevent the already serious effects of the crisis from worsening, to find solutions for better and more efficient european economic governance. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial institutions are able to comply with the obligations of the treaty and the treaty on european union. in addition, it is also proposed to create a robust programme for the prevention of excessive debt and a resolution mechanism for the euro area. finally, it is advisable to improve the reliability of eu statistics and also the external representation of the union in economic and monetary affairs. the member states must then comply fully with the rules and decisions of the european union. i also stress the importance of aligning the reform with the eu 2020 objectives, in particular to strengthen the internal market and the role of smes as key drivers of economic growth. for the reasons i have given, i shall vote in favour of the document.
mr president, the european instrument for democracy and human rights is crucial for an eu foreign policy seriously committed to the promotion of democracy, the rule of law and human rights worldwide. it is the only instrument that we can now mobilise to help those who stand up for democracy and human rights in countries where basic freedoms are restricted. we can do it without the consent of their respective governments. obviously, such a valuable instrument must be under proper european parliament scrutiny, and this is why we demand the delegated acts procedure. however, we should realise that this instrument is rather limited in terms of the funding available, and a sizeable part of it actually pays for the eu election observation missions: 22% for the period 2011-2013. this means that the budget allocated to the european instrument for democracy and human rights must be significantly increased. i would like to use this opportunity to point out a new tool which the european parliament should help create, and which this instrument could fund in order to assist even more efficiently and with more flexibility the people who often risk their lives in fighting for democracy, rule of law and human rights in countries with dictatorships or oppressive regimes, and in countries seeking a transition towards democracy, but where they meet violent anti-democratic forces and where they need much more assistance in terms of building capacities to defeat these anti-democratic forces. what we need is a cross-party non-governmental european foundation similar to the national endowment for democracy established by the us congress. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, it is exactly in the flexibility that the beauty lies. having a cross-party foundation, we would be able to identify particular cases which, on a broad basis, we would see as needing particular assistance, bypassing obstructive governments or authorities or forces, to build capacity for those who are fighting for human rights. i think that the example of the ned in the us is indeed a very enlightening one, and we should not be shy of following what works from other parts of the world, in this case from our american partners. we already have the foundations of the different parties working in europe, but often with different agendas, and certainly there are many cases where they should converge and would then be more efficient in providing assistance to those who are fighting for democracy and human rights.
mr president, mr minister, on 6 july this year the european parliament adopted by a large majority a specific directive on bio-waste. for reasons of clarity, for reasons of simplicity, for reasons of legal certainty, we believe that instead of this legislation which is divided into several legislative texts, instead of this situation a specific directive is better. in this way we can be in line with the european union 2020 strategy, smart growth, sustainable growth, inclusive growth, because we can also have more green jobs. in this way we will also be able to combat climate change, and with a high-quality compound we will be able to provide better support for our soils and also support for biodiversity, and so i ask whether the council agrees, whether the council is also in favour of a specific directive and what it will do to this end.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i have to say that i fully understand the situation in pakistan, but i would like to say that this decision is tragic for europe and particularly for some countries which are already experiencing great difficulties, such as portugal, spain or greece. for example, the textile and clothing industry accounts for 11% of total portuguese exports, 22% of manufacturing employment and, for some products, 80% of production is even made in portugal. and so these 80%, diluted perhaps in the 27 of europe, may mean little to the european commission, but to portugal they mean a great deal. europe cannot demand from these countries very violent measures, which are self-evident, to control public accounts and contain the deficit, and at the same time take decisions that strike at the productive heart and the capacity to create wealth and to maintain jobs in these very countries. this decision, i must say, also breaks the normal market rules in ways that are not conceivable. i do not advocate any market protectionism, but i do call for the uncompromising defence of its good rules, a healthy market and a fair market. they understand that this decision will allow products manufactured in pakistan to enter europe at a cost price below that which is possible for our companies, simply because they are not required to produce under the same conditions. and this, i'm very sorry to say, is called unfair competition. unfair competition. pakistani companies have no social costs to their workers, no environmental protection costs, no particular concerns in combating a reality of child labour, no equivalent restrictions on the use of raw materials for public health reasons. i would even ask: how is it possible to take such a radical decision without first presenting a detailed and accurate report on its negative impact in the various countries? there are, however, consequences which i can already anticipate, and those consequences are the closure and bankruptcy of companies in the european union, particularly in portugal, and the increase in the number of their unemployed. you better have the right idea, because somebody else is going to have to take responsibility for that, too. and, at the very least, if you take this proposal as inevitable - because there will be those who have it - at least, please, anticipate some things that are not contemplated at this time. for example, the setting of the quota limit, as is provided for ethanol but not for textiles. the waiver for a maximum of one year, because if aid is temporary... in three years, believe me, no european company can stand in direct competition with pakistani companies. i'm finished, madam president. and, by the way, a provision on raw materials, so that pakistan itself does not prevent european companies from accessing these raw materials in order to benefit from this production itself.
for the gue/ngl group on the one hand, we have large european importers who profit from the entry of pakistani products into europe. on the other hand, we have another small number of large pakistani textile factories, which happen to be located in territories outside the disaster areas, which also benefit greatly from this commission proposal. this is the reality. the winners are not the sick, not the homeless, not the children, not the elderly who have lost their homes. the big businessmen win. and what is being done here is the instrumentalisation of catastrophe, the instrumentalisation of extreme weather events, for the realization of big business. that is what is absolutely intolerable in the proposal that is being made by the commission. you better be scratching your way through.
madam president, commissioner, the tragedy in pakistan calls for european solidarity, but it cannot be a pretext for calling into question the textile industry of several member states, as is the case in portugal. there are other ways to show solidarity. more effective forms of aid, aimed at the rehabilitation of the affected areas and the improvement of the living conditions of the local population, but also more equitable forms of aid. trade concessions are not long-term measures, as you said. the main beneficiaries are the large european importers, who are thus satisfied with longstanding claims. but they harm the textile industry and the countries and regions most dependent on it. all this in a context of deep crisis and high unemployment. the commission's proposals are not, of course, to be used as a pretext for further redundancies, but we cannot ignore the objective difficulties they create. measures are needed to protect the european textile sector and its employment. on the proposal of our group, the community budget for 2010 provides for a budget line for the creation of a community programme for the textile and footwear sector. where is this program, commissioner? what are your key lines? those are questions we leave here.
mr president, we have defended and valued the possibility of the existence of origin marking, considering it in all respects as an instrument for the defence of industrial jobs in europe, particularly in small and mediumsized enterprises, an instrument against social and environmental dumping. an important instrument, but only this: an instrument. it is not - let us not delude ourselves in this regard - a panacea. it is not the universal magic solution to deal with the dire consequences of liberalization and deregulation of world trade, to deal with the tremendous damage that comes from this deregulation. some of the beneficiaries of this liberalization are the same people who have always opposed the designation of origin: the large importers and the large european distributors. we will continue to fight against the protectionism which has been enjoyed by these big interests, contrary to the general interest, to the detriment of thousands of smes in europe, of workers, of their rights and wages. we need to seriously address issues relating to production and processing chains covering different geographical areas, but these issues are not insurmountable and must be resolved in the most transparent and informative way possible.
mr president, the impact of a large number of sectoral activities and policies on the marine environment, from fisheries to maritime transport, tourism, energy, science and technology and others, calls for an integrated policy which promotes a beneficial interrelation of all these areas within a framework of sustainability of the marine environment and preservation of their ecosystems, because in this interrelation local and regional specificities have a decisive weight and because it is also at this level that the effects of this integrated policy will be expressed. it is also at this level that the definition of the sea, rather than its mere implementation, must be carried out, involving the coastal communities that interact with, animate and depend on the marine environment, without forgetting the necessary overall vision and the essential articulation and cooperation that arise from the fact that the oceans and seas are interconnected and interdependent. any community initiative in this area should safeguard the sovereignty and competence of the member states over their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones and, at the same time, contribute to the development of the resources therein as part of their endogenous potential and their comparative advantages. a comprehensive vision of an integrated maritime policy should include, among other things, the promotion of marine research and development and marine technology and engineering in its various aspects, including shipbuilding the promotion of environmentally more sustainable maritime transport and port infrastructure in the context of its public management, the enhancement of fisheries by ensuring the modernisation of the sector and its environmental sustainability and socioeconomic viability, adequate and autonomous financing that does not draw resources from the european fisheries fund and, finally, the role and special characteristics of the outermost regions.
mr president, commissioner, the oceans and seas cover 70% of the planet's surface, they have been the cradle of life and, throughout human history, have been a source of food through fishing and a means of communication between peoples and cultures through maritime trade. this is where the concept of traditional maritime activities, fishing and transport originated. the sea is now taking on a new role in the global context as a geostrategic and geopolitical arena that gives europe a central role. in addition, we are now living in the so-called period of new uses for the oceans, with the exploitation of their energy, mineral and genetic resources, which, along with fishing and maritime transport, require a holistic approach and concerted action, which mrs meissner has also tried to portray, and for which i warmly congratulate her. the planning of european maritime space and its uses is fundamental for the european union, especially for coastal regions and even more so for the outermost regions. in order for the pmi to be a whole greater than the sum of its parts, and in this case the fisheries sector, it is imperative that this activity be represented in the maritime clusters so that, in a synergistic way, they can combine their will and overcome difficulties arising from overlapping interests in the use of maritime space. in this context, the protection of the most ecologically sensitive marine biogeographical regions and the promotion of sustainable fishing, with the use of increasingly selective fishing gear, is an imperative for achieving the goals set at the 2002 johannesburg summit. e creation of cross-sectoral policy instruments covering the different sectors of the various maritime activities, defending their respective requirements and specificities in terms of the use of the maritime domain, should therefore be ensured. protecting the oceans is a moral obligation we have to ourselves and to future generations.
mr president, smart growth, as envisaged in strategy 2020, can only be achieved if we use the different potentials of european diversity in an intelligent way. twenty-five million square kilometres of exclusive zone make the european union the largest se in the world. three hundred and twenty thousand kilometres of coastline, home to a third of our population, generating 40% of our gross domestic product and 95% of foreign trade are figures that should alert the commission and the council to action, in the sense that they cannot do without an integrated european maritime policy in achieving the smart growth essential to the success of strategy 2020. i would like to draw attention in particular to the potential of the biogenetic and mineral wealth of our deep sea and seabed, which is still poorly understood, and to the need to increase our research and development efforts in these areas.
in writing. it is important for the eu to ensure that its shores are protected. the legislation in force must also improve safety in oil exploration and extraction. the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides support and technical assistance in the development and implementation of community legislation on maritime safety and security and in the area of pollution caused by ships. in june this year i put in writing to commissioners oettinger, kallas and georgieva the suggestion that the european maritime agency's powers should be extended to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms in the north sea, the black sea and the mediterranean and to be responsible for preventing environmental disasters linked to oil exploration. this suggestion allows for economies of scale in terms of financial, human and technical resources. i welcome the commissioners' response, which has shown openness to revising the regulation of the european maritime agency, extending its powers to deal with marine pollution incidents. i would like to ask the commission to extend the powers of the european maritime safety agency to ensure the protection of our coasts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report amending the regulation establishing a stability instrument, because i consider a broader review of eu external financial assistance essential. the implementation of the instrument for stability has strengthened the eu's capacity to respond to crisis or emerging crisis situations and in this regard i consider that the commission in line with its commitments, in particular on the promotion of stable conditions for human and economic development and the promotion of human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms as key objectives of the european union's external action should, on the one hand, improve its strategic planning and increase the disbursement of funds available to the partnership for peacebuilding and, on the other hand, present a plan for the mobilisation of financial resources for any emergency external assistance facilities or mechanisms that are created outside the instrument for stability, in order to avoid the use of funds provided for this instrument. i therefore believe that the commission should increase the low levels of budget implementation in the future, based on a strategic vision for a better use of its instruments.
in writing. − the eu is the world's largest donor of external aid, accounting for more than half of official development assistance. together, the member countries have given €49 billion in aid to the world's poorest countries, equivalent to about 0.4% of their total gross income. these figures clearly demonstrate the importance of european development aid and, of course, the relevance of the stability instrument. i therefore welcome the strengthening of this instrument and the union's greater commitment to development cooperation. however, i cannot help stressing that, although i consider it essential that the eu should remain committed to its external missions of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, i do not understand how it is possible that aid to third countries can be unblocked more quickly than aid to member states affected by disasters, as was unfortunately the case in madeira, which, several months after the tragedy, has still not received any aid from the solidarity fund.
in writing. − the stability instrument is very important for strengthening the eu's capacity to respond to crisis situations or emerging crises. as the world's largest donor of external aid and responsible for more than half of official development assistance, the eu needs instruments to enable it to address crisis situations, taking into account the eu's horizontal and geographical objectives and priorities, while making these actions complementary to the community's geographical policies and objectives and instruments. when it comes to development, the eu's objectives must be to combat poverty and its causes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the financing instrument for development cooperation (dci) because i believe that parliament has been closely monitoring the way the provisions of the dci have been implemented since it came into force in 2007. the commission proposes in its legislative proposal for the mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument (dci) only a technical amendment to allow the costs of fees, charges and other charges relating to the financing of dci actions by beneficiary countries to be financed from the dci budget. i believe that this amendment will make it possible to finance these costs in exceptional circumstances, thus creating greater flexibility in the implementation of programmes and projects.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the proposal presented in this report. the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) improves on the previous european union development cooperation framework by bringing together the various geographical and thematic instruments into a single instrument. in addition to the technical changes related to the financing of the actions covered by the cdi, which aim at greater flexibility in the implementation of its projects and programmes, the mid-term review of this instrument provides an ideal opportunity to adapt the cdi comitology procedure to the new comitology requirements.
in writing. the amendment in question is purely technical and is intended to enable the costs of fees, duties and other charges to be borne by community aid in exceptional circumstances. this exceptional circumstance may be justified in specific cases and will allow for increased flexibility in the way projects and programmes are implemented. the unanimous support it received in the committee responsible for the proposal shows that there is a consensus on the proposal.
in writing. − the development cooperation financing instrument is another very important argument for strengthening the eu's capacity to respond to crisis situations or emerging crises. as the world's largest donor of external aid and responsible for more than half of official development assistance, the eu needs instruments to enable it to address crisis situations, taking into account the eu's horizontal and geographical objectives and priorities, while making these actions complementary to the community's geographical policies and objectives and instruments. when it comes to development, the eu's objectives must be to combat poverty and its causes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide in the framework of the legislative proposal on the mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument (dci) and the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), for which the commission proposes only a technical amendment to allow the costs of fees, charges and other charges relating to the financing of actions covered by the dci and the eidhr in the beneficiary countries to be financed by the budgets of the instruments. whereas the cdi and the edf were the only financial instruments not to provide for an exception to the principle of non-eligibility of such costs, in the case of edf projects this is of particular importance given the special conditions under which they are carried out. i therefore believe that the commission's legislative proposal for the mid-term review of the emcdda provides the ideal opportunity to ensure that this instrument meets the new requirements laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i vote in favour of all the proposals in this report. the emcdda, as a financial instrument aimed at promoting the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and contributing to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in third countries, is an important vehicle for union assistance in the field of rights, freedoms and guarantees. the legislative proposal for the mid-term review of the emcdda launched by the commission provides an appropriate opportunity to review the legal basis of this instrument, ensuring that it now complies with the new requirements laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the eu. in particular, the procedure for delegated acts, provided for in article 290 tfeu, which significantly strengthens parliament's powers by granting it a right of veto, obliges the commission to submit an amended proposal for acts adopted in co-decision.
in writing. - as with the amendment to regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation and regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 establishing a financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide contained in the resolution following the report by mr gay mitchell, this resolution also takes on board the need to carry out a legislative amendment of an eminently technical nature and of the same nature. i believe that the european union should continue to give the defence and promotion of democracy and human rights a central place, not only in its discourse but above all in its political practice, and that to this end it is absolutely necessary and even urgent to do so in coordination with the united states of america.
in writing. − the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide is another very important argument for strengthening the eu's capacity to respond to crisis situations or emerging crises. as the world's largest donor of external aid and responsible for more than half of official development assistance, the eu needs instruments to enable it to address crisis situations, taking into account the eu's horizontal and geographical objectives and priorities, while making these actions complementary to the community's geographical policies and objectives and instruments. when it comes to development, the eu's objectives must be to combat poverty and its causes. in the case of this instrument, the legislative proposal is concerned only with a technical amendment which will make it possible to make this instrument more flexible in the implementation of programmes and projects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (ici regulation) which aims to support economic, financial and technical cooperation as well as academic and research exchange in the areas of community competence, because i consider that the changes proposed by the commission are substantial, since all the current references to partner countries (which, so far, only covered industrialised and high-income countries and territories), including their qualitative assessment, should now also include the listed developing countries. this broadening of geographical coverage is an opportunity, as programmes currently funded under the ici regulation can now be extended to other countries. however, this is also a greater challenge. i therefore think it is important to make it quite clear to whom this funding can be granted, for what purpose and under what conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution because i consider it to be in the union's interest to continue to deepen its relations with developing countries, particularly in the fields of economic, commercial, academic, business and scientific exchanges. the community therefore needs a financial instrument to finance these measures. moreover, with the extension of the geographical coverage of regulation (ec) no 1934/2006, the developing countries covered are now the subject of two separate external policy financial instruments and it is important to ensure that these two financial instruments remain strictly separate.
in writing. - i believe it is essential that europe establishes strong relations with certain regional and global actors, supporting them and establishing strong political and economic links. i would like to mention in particular two countries with which portugal has strong historical and emotional ties, brazil and angola, two important global players in south america and africa respectively, which the eu should increasingly look to as partners. given that the main general objective of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 is to eradicate poverty through the achievement of the millennium development goals, cooperation is essentially limited to the financing of measures designed to meet the criteria applicable to official development assistance (oda) as established. this often excludes other types of action which do not fall within the scope of oda but which are nevertheless essential in the context of the union's external policy. it is precisely to regulate such practices which involve economic, commercial, academic, business and scientific agreements and exchanges with developing countries that it is proposed that this regulation be adopted.
in writing. − the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialized countries and territories is a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialized and other high-income countries and territories. it aims to support economic, financial and technical cooperation as well as academic and research exchanges. the aim of this regulation is to extend the scope of this instrument substantially to include cooperation with developing countries, and the overall financial framework should be increased to this end. the geographical extension proposed here is an opportunity to take the programmes to new countries, but it also represents a great challenge, so it is very important to make it quite clear to whom this funding can be granted, for what and under what conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution because i consider it to be in the union's interest to continue to deepen its relations with developing countries, particularly in the fields of economic, commercial, academic, business and scientific exchanges. the community needs a financial instrument to finance these measures. moreover, with the extension of the geographical coverage of regulation (ec) no 1934/2006, the developing countries concerned are now covered by two separate external policy financial instruments and it is important to ensure that these two financial instruments remain strictly separate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution, but i consider that the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, by drastically reducing the margin for heading 4 of the 2007-13 multiannual financial framework (mff), does not leave enough room for manoeuvre to deal with and react appropriately to a potential coming crisis.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the general proposals contained in this report. i think that the role of the european parliament is eminently political in the face of the commission's proposal to set up a monitoring programme for the acp banana-producing countries. i also believe that this programme can only be legitimated by a paradigm shift from a purely commercial perspective to a more comprehensive and integrated vision such as that of development and the fight against poverty (the number one target of the mdgs). since the conclusion of eu-acp preferential agreements is incompatible under the agreements signed between the eu and the wto and the positive results in the acp banana-producing countries of previous preferential agreements have been demonstrated, it is necessary to support the adaptation, reorganisation and competitiveness of the banana exporting sector in these countries. in a broad sense, these accompanying measures for the banana sector should have a positive impact not only on producers, the first link in the production chain, but also on the criteria for combating poverty. the whole chain will thus be able to enjoy acceptable living conditions and easier access to markets.
in writing. − economic, financial and technical cooperation, as well as academic and research exchanges between the union and third countries, is one of the priorities of european foreign policy and efforts in this direction should be supported. the amendment proposed by the commission extends the scope of the regulation to a large number of developing countries. as the rapporteur makes clear in his explanatory statement, this change is an opportunity, but it is also a major challenge to the proper use of this instrument, which may lose in coherence what it has gained in scope. this enlargement requires additional funding and, at the same time, an even more careful and rigorous allocation of resources, otherwise it would scatter resources which could be mobilised for meaningful and fruitful cooperation projects.
in writing. - the reasons for our abstention in this report are the same as those for voting on the report on the budgetary review to establish financial assistance for the acp countries, which will be affected by the liberalisation of banana trade between the eu and eleven latin american countries. this liberalization will mainly benefit the us multinationals which dominate the world market in this sector. as for the acp countries, as several of their representatives have already stated, including some local producers, the amount of eur 200 million which the eu proposes to allocate to them is not likely to offset all the impacts of these measures. the question therefore arises: what are the grounds for the impact assessment carried out by the commission following the signing of the geneva agreement? once again, the eu's proclaimed development policy objectives, particularly poverty reduction, are subordinated to the commercial interests of its economic groups. unfortunately, the claim that the aim is to improve the standard of living and the living conditions of the people in the banana growing areas and value chains, in particular small farmers and small entities, has little practical meaning.
in writing. − the development cooperation financing instrument is another very important argument for strengthening the eu's capacity to respond to crisis situations or emerging crises. as the world's largest donor of external aid and responsible for more than half of official development assistance, the eu needs instruments to enable it to address crisis situations, taking into account the eu's horizontal and geographical objectives and priorities, while making these actions complementary to the community's geographical policies and objectives and instruments. when it comes to development, the eu's objectives must be to combat poverty and its causes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution, although i consider that the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, by drastically reducing the margin for heading 4 of the 2007-13 multiannual financial framework (mff), does not leave enough room for manoeuvre to deal with and react appropriately to a potential future crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries, as i considered it important to provide consumers with correct information enabling them to exercise their freedom of choice. european consumers have the right to know where the products they buy come from so that they can make informed choices.
in writing. − if there is one area in which the eu has been successful, it is in protecting consumers' rights by imposing rules that defend their rights and ensure that they are sufficiently informed to exercise their freedom of choice in conscience. this was one of the standards to which the european consumer had become accustomed and to which european producers had adapted. so, for the sake of transparency, consumer protection, but also protection for european producers, it is essential that goods imported from third countries are correctly identified as such, giving account of their origin. i'll even go further: if europe is so restrictive in the rules it imposes on its producers - for example, the rules for animal husbandry - it should only allow the import of products which comply with those same rules, otherwise it would be allowing low-cost products, made in breach of all community rules, to enter the market and thus unfairly compete with the european product, which is much more expensive to produce and/or manufacture.
in writing. - our vote in favour of the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries is based on the need to clarify the route taken by the products to reach the eu countries. further action is needed, given that this indication alone, without the accompanying measures, will have a very limited impact. but a break with the current wto guidelines is a priority to allow countries to give priority to the development of their production and their market, with controls on imported goods, imposing minimum quality and technical criteria equal to those required of companies within the eu, combating dumping, effective regulation of capital markets, penalizing business relocations, taxing financial transactions and ending tax havens. the establishment of more equitable and fairer economic relations, at the service of peoples and countries, supporting development and cooperation based on equality between states and building alliances and agreements with countries from all continents, is necessary to combat deep social injustices and inequalities, hunger, disease and poverty.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'produced in' in the labelling of foodstuffs. the community economy needs to be strengthened by improving the competitiveness of eu industry in the world economy. we can only have fair competition if it works with clear rules for producers, exporters and importers, taking account of common social and environmental considerations. this regulation is therefore an important step towards eu consumers finally having the same rights as millions of consumers worldwide. although this rule cannot yet be applied to all products imported into the eu, we must nevertheless continue to develop towards the point where all imported products must bear their indication of origin.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries, considering that consumers have the right to know the origin of the products they buy in order to be able to make an informed choice. this is all the more necessary as we know that in today's globalised world, external trade is increasingly borderless, and it is therefore important to ensure that the origin of products circulating in the eu and beyond is clearly identified. this can also be an important step towards more detailed labelling of various products in order not only to guarantee consumer rights more fully but also to ensure reciprocity in the production requirements imposed on community and non-community producers.
in writing. − the potential of the single market cannot be fully exploited without the support of a modern standardisation system. in this sense, the implementation of the european standardisation system (ess), which must be emancipated, has been fundamental to the completion of the single market, in particular through its ability to respond to the growing need for standards capable of guaranteeing product safety for consumers, ease of access, environmental protection or innovation. i believe that european standardisation is an important means of promoting innovation and r & d, thus contributing to the competitiveness of the union. in this particular case, the european framework programmes for innovation and r & d can be a valuable input in the standardisation process. i also believe that european standardisation contributes to creating a level playing field for all market players, especially smes and micro-enterprises, which are so important in the dynamics of the european economy. however, i believe that the union and the member states should take greater account of the interests of smes in the development of standards, since their participation in the standardisation process is often different from their weight and importance in the european economy. i therefore vote in favour of the proposals in this report.
in writing. − when the commission expresses its willingness to review the european standardisation system, it is essential to recognise the contribution it has made to the protection of european consumers and the internal market. like the rapporteur, i believe that the revision of the european standardisation system must build on the strengths of the existing system, which constitute a solid basis for improvement, while avoiding radical changes that could undermine the system's fundamental values. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. this will be a discussion to be followed with interest.
in writing. the european standardisation system has been instrumental in the achievement of the single market. it has played a key role in responding to the growing need in european policy and legislation for standards that ensure product safety, ease of access, innovation, interoperability and environmental protection. however, european standardisation to meet the future needs of businesses and consumers and to realise its full potential benefits for public and social objectives must adapt to the challenges posed by globalisation, climate change, the emergence of new economic powers and technological developments. it is therefore necessary to develop a strategic approach to european standardisation and to review the current system in order to ensure that it can continue to be successful and meet the needs of the next decade, enabling europe to maintain its leadership in the global standardisation system.
in writing. − the standardisation process plays a significant role in ensuring the quality of public or private products and services, as well as compliance with safety, environmental and social responsibility standards. this report seeks to involve smes and the various social actors in the standardisation process. it promotes the sharing of information on new regulations and encourages the dissemination of these processes on clear, simple and user-friendly information websites available in all the official languages of the european union. i have, however, some reservations about the genuine representation of all the social partners in the standardisation processes and also about the financing process of the european standardisation system. i'm voting for it.
in writing. - moldova has made a positive convergence with european standards of freedom, democracy and good governance and an apparent willingness to continue this effort, which i cannot but welcome. the forthcoming electoral period will be a major test of the strength of its institutions and its democratic culture. despite the positive indications, it must be remembered that many issues remain unresolved, including the many issues of transnistria, which threaten its stability and progress. i hope that the union can make a strong contribution towards a lasting solution to this problem.
in writing. − having regard to the outcome of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the eastern partnership launched in may 2009 which recognise the european aspirations of the republic of moldova and the importance of moldova as a country with deep historical, cultural and economic ties to the member states of the european union, i welcome the progress made by the republic of moldova in the past year and am confident that the electoral process can further consolidate democratic institutions and respect for the rule of law and human rights in moldova. i hope that the moldovan authorities will carry out the necessary reforms and fulfil their commitments to keep the republic of moldova on the path of firm european integration. i also highlight the start of negotiations on the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on 12 january 2010 and underline the good results that the commission is obtaining from the republic of moldova in this process.
in writing. - once again, the majority in parliament is trying to interfere in the internal affairs of a country, openly taking the side of the forces in moldova that harbour the interests of eu economic groups, undermining the independence and sovereignty of this country and the expressed will of its people. the council also welcomed the progress made by the republic of moldova in the past year and called on the authorities to carry out the necessary reforms and to honour the commitments made to keep the country on the path towards european integration. what is not said is that power in moldova is the result of a coalition formed following a genuine constitutional coup, which used a series of provocative and destabilising manoeuvres to bring the communist party, which had won the elections, to power. and that this same coalition, once in power, has initiated a disturbing anti-communist and anti-democratic escalation, in a clear move to discredit the communist party. the majority of the ep's position shows its deep anti-communist character and its hypocrisy when it comes to defending democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution because, in the face of the elections scheduled for 28 november 2010, and in view of the sectarian attempts by the right-wing forces to promote the banning of the names and symbols of their main left-wing opponents, it is important to stress the need for the elections to be held in strict compliance with international standards, giving equal opportunities to all political forces. i also think it is important to reiterate support for the territorial integrity of the republic of moldova and to underline the role that the eu can and must play in helping to build a solution to the transnistrian problem.
in writing. − moldova has been making efforts over the past few years to increasingly converge with european benchmarks of freedom, democracy and good governance. the efforts outlined here have been consistent and have demonstrated that moldova is concerned about continuing its path towards possible enlargement. moldova will soon face an election period which will be a good test of the degree of consolidation of its democratic culture as well as its institutions. despite all the positive aspects already mentioned, there are still some issues which must be dealt with positively, in particular the transnistria issue, which may in some way cause some instability. the eu must continue to make every effort to ensure that the reforms that have been implemented in moldova continue on track.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the integrated maritime policy (imp) as regards the assessment of progress made and the new challenges because i believe that the eu needs concrete measures to mobilise the maritime economy by encouraging and promoting the economic potential of maritime clusters, in particular in the member states and in regions with a large exclusive economic zone, such as portugal and the azores. i believe that smart growth, as envisaged in strategy 2020, can only be achieved if the different potentials contained in european diversity are mobilised in an intelligent way. i therefore consider the strengthening of the integrated maritime policy to be very important in order to promote economic growth and the creation of new sustainable jobs in maritime regions, to protect marine ecosystems and, in particular, to encourage the exchange of best practices.
in writing. - it is important that the eu ensures the protection of its coasts. the legislation in force must also improve safety in oil exploration and extraction. the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, provides support and technical assistance in the development and implementation of community legislation on maritime safety and security and in the area of pollution caused by ships. in june this year i put in writing to commissioners oettinger, kallas and georgieva the suggestion that the european maritime agency's powers should be extended to create mechanisms for monitoring the safety of european oil platforms in the north sea, the black sea and the mediterranean and to be responsible for preventing environmental disasters linked to oil exploration. this suggestion allows for economies of scale in terms of financial, human and technical resources. i welcome the commissioners' response, which has shown an openness to revising the regulation of the european maritime agency, extending its powers to deal with incidents of marine pollution. i would like to ask the commission to extend the powers of the european maritime safety agency to ensure the protection of our coasts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on an integrated maritime policy because i believe that it should promote greater coherence between the various policy sectors, so that the potential of the seas and the maritime sector can be used in an ecological, economically sustainable and effective way.
in writing. - the eu has 320 000 km of coastline, with one third of its citizens upward trending living on the coastline. our economic activities at sea and on the coast produce 40% of the eu's gdp, and according to all forecasts, there is still a great deal of untapped development potential. in fact, 40% of intra-european trade and 95% of extra-european exports take place by sea. the rapporteur sums up in one sentence the importance of the sea for europe. as a portuguese, i know it well. it is also as a portuguese, a people who have always turned to the sea and found prosperity and wealth in it, that i consider it essential that europe has a maritime policy that allows it to take advantage of all the potential that the sea has, as an economic and energy resource, as a creator of jobs and wealth and as a driver of competitiveness and innovation. i would particularly like to stress the concern about environmental disasters at sea - i am reminded of the prestige case which occurred just off the northern coast of portugal - and the need for stricter rules to prevent them in european seas.
in writing. − the sea provides important trade routes, acts as a climate regulator and is a source of food, energy and resources. in the 21st century, the sea has assumed a new identity and has assumed a geostrategic and geopolitical importance unparalleled in human history. today, more than ever, it is a key factor for europe. europe must take advantage of this centrality. member states such as portugal have to take advantage of their relationship with the sea and the size of their exclusive economic zone, which in the case of portugal is one of the largest in the world. the european union concentrates around 40% of its gdp and 40% of its population in maritime regions. the direct turnover of the maritime tourism sector in europe was estimated at eur 72 billion in 2004. some 90% of europe's external trade and almost 40% of its internal trade pass through its ports. i therefore advocate an ambitious blue growth strategy, and for this the commission should present a global and cross-sectoral strategy, based on a broad research of policy options and potential and a broad consultation of stakeholders, for sustainable growth in coastal regions and maritime sectors by 2012.
in writing. − the report presents an overview of the imp linked to the eu's external policy objectives. we disagree with this approach and with several other aspects of the report, such as the insistence on the creation of a european coastguard, in a federalist line which disrespects the sovereignty and powers of the member states over their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones. we reject the proposal to introduce market economy instruments such as emissions trading schemes in the maritime sector - mechanisms which, even without applying to the maritime sector, have already proven ineffective in achieving the environmental objectives they claim to pursue. but we recognize the positive aspects it contains, such as: the proposal to include in international forums and agreements the improvement of working conditions at sea, the safety and environmental performance of ships; the proposal to implement the ilo maritime labour convention in community law; the enhancement of maritime freight transport; the preservation of small and secondary ports; the expansion of the short sea transport network; the importance attached to improving links to the outermost regions. it also proposes that marine sciences be given greater importance in the 8th framework programme for research.
in writing. - an integrated maritime policy is essential to make the most of the immense wealth that the sea provides us with, as well as all the economic potential that exists there. we must not forget that our economic activities at sea and on the coast produce 40% of the eu's gdp, and yet, according to various studies, there is still a great deal of untapped development potential. in fact, 40% of intra-european trade and 95% of extra-european exports take place by sea. despite these figures and the enormous potential that still remains to be exploited, there is no integrated european maritime policy which would allow us to avoid treating separately the policies pursued in the fields of maritime transport, the maritime economy, new technologies, coastal regions, offshore energy, fisheries, surveillance and maintenance of law and order at sea, tourism, protection of the marine environment and marine research. this motion for a resolution is intended to help to change the present situation.
in writing. - to date, policies in the fields of maritime transport, the maritime economy, new technologies, coastal regions, offshore energy, fisheries, maritime surveillance, tourism, protection of the marine environment and marine research have evolved separately. an individual approach often leads to contradictory measures and to situations of conflict and mismatch. an integrated approach is therefore desirable, including a governance framework with all decision-making levels on the one hand and all cross-sectoral sectors and instruments on the other. in the context of coordinated planning of activities, i support the request to the commission to draw up strategies for sea basins which take account of the specificities of the regions and exploit their strengths. this would be a good proposal for the case of the outermost regions, such as madeira, as it would allow the region to take advantage of its activities linked to the sea and create synergies with the activities of the other regions of the sea basin in which it is integrated. the outermost regions also give the european union, through its maritime territory, the largest exclusive economic zone in the world, which highlights the importance of maritime and sea-related activities in these regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eu trade relations with latin america because they must be a priority for the eu. the eu is currently latin america's second most important trading partner and the main trading partner of mercosur and chile. european trade policy must also play an important role in achieving the millennium development goals, as well as international commitments related to human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty defines the eu's trade policy as an integral part of the union's overall external action. recently, there has been a decline in eu-lac trade due to the increasing share of asian countries in the external trade of lac, despite the fact that the eu remains latin america's second largest trading partner. although the association agreements between the european union on the one hand and mexico and chile on the other have led to a substantial increase in the volume of trade, mexico's trade with europe remains modest compared with that with the united states. i therefore support the need for both sides to develop a wider range of economic activities in trade. the bulk of lac imports from the eu are now industrial products (over 85%). in turn, more than 40% of the region's exports to the eu are commodities. it is therefore necessary to mobilise resources and technical assistance to identify and finance programmes that provide local and regional production opportunities and sustainable access to global markets for excluded communities and small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - we did not vote in favour of this report because of its contradictions. although it does have some positive aspects in relation to the new realities in latin america, several of its paragraphs are unacceptable. for example, we highlight, on the positive side, the recognition that all countries have the right to create the necessary mechanisms to defend their food security and to ensure the survival and development of small and medium-sized producers. but, however, at another point it says exactly the opposite when it says: regrets the protectionist measures taken during the financial crisis by some latin american countries, in particular argentina; calls on the commission to address the issue of market access with latin american countries on a regular basis. or when it says deeply concerned about the restrictive measures recently adopted by the argentine authorities on food products imported from third countries, including the european union. the support for the liberalization of international trade, which is apparent in some of its proposals, is also unacceptable, although there are still differences of opinion on other points.
in writing. − as the eu is latin america's largest investor and second largest trading partner, and also the largest provider of development aid, we believe that these data are sufficient to have a clear and well-defined strategy for eu-latin america trade relations. we call for clear guidelines on how best to work together to promote political stability, combat climate change, manage migration flows and prevent natural disasters. a good way to provide the aid that latin america needs is to boost trade relations between the two blocs, which, if they are established, will be among the most important in the world. however, we must not forget the outermost regions of europe which may be affected by the import of certain agricultural products, in particular the portuguese region of madeira in respect of banana imports. we must find a balanced agreement which will enable the latin american countries to develop, but which at the same time will not be detrimental to the various economic sectors of some member states, especially the agricultural and livestock sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 21 october 2010 on eu trade relations with latin america, as i believe that the free market stimulates the world economy and can be an important factor for development in latin american countries. i do, however, believe that the mandate given to the european commission to conduct the negotiation process should be reviewed because it is already too old and inappropriate to the present circumstances in which the negotiations will take place. in this review there would certainly be an opportunity to stress the need to carry out studies prior to the conclusion of agreements on their impact on the european productive fabric and in particular on agriculture, and a strong position should also be taken to ensure that agricultural products are no longer allowed to continue to serve as a bargaining chip for commercial advantages at other levels.
in writing. − the european common commercial policy is an integral and relevant part of the union's overall external action and can play a very positive role in the objectives of wealth creation and in economic and political relations between the peoples and countries of the european and latin american areas. i have no doubt that deeper integration in economic areas can bring benefits to both sides, particularly in terms of creating more and better jobs. however, i am aware of the effects that the bilateral trade agreements that have been concluded between the european union and the countries of latin america may have on the economies of the outermost regions. in my own region, madeira, the consequences are particularly visible in the banana production sector. i therefore advocate that this production sector and the other strategic and traditional sectors in the outermost regions be preserved. to this end, and in accordance with the european union's commitment to its outermost regions, they should be adequately compensated and their vulnerable economies given special attention. the protection of these regions is covered by this document and i am voting in favour of it.
mr president, i give my full backing to this resolution, which is supported by my political group and calls for action in support of sakharov awardee oleg orlov and what he stands for – namely opposition to the human rights violations that go on in the northern caucasus. let me say in this respect that i do not see myself and my group reflected in the words of mr mirsky, who spoke earlier and criticised oleg orlov, saying that he should not use his status as a human rights defender to speak up against mr kadyrov. any self-respecting democrat knows that you do not need a title, you do not need to be a human rights defender, and you do not need to be a member of memorial or a sakharov awardee to have the democratic right to criticise any head of state or government. i should also like to use this opportunity to endorse what our colleague raül romeva i rueda said earlier. he called the attention of this parliament – and also of the commission and the council and, in particular, mrs ashton – to the dangerous situation that is now developing in western sahara. i should like to request her to intervene so that the moroccan authorities do not arrest the people of western sahara who are fighting against illegal occupation. (the president cut off the speaker.)
it is time to insist with the united states on the peaceful settlement of conflicts, on the end of military occupation and war, whether in iraq, afghanistan or the middle east, on the end of the blockade of cuba and the end of support for israel's aggressive policy, which is responsible for the humanitarian crisis in gaza and the occupied palestinian territories, and on nuclear disarmament. it must be made clear that the pretext of fighting terrorism cannot continue to be used to call into question international law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is essential to work together to reduce poverty, to put an end to tax havens and speculative capital movements. this summit coincides with the nato summit in lisbon, which is seeking to revise its strategic concept and at which the united states is seeking to obtain from the european union's allies a commitment to a worldwide military escalation, attempting to ensure the exploitation of resources, control of markets and political dominance by means of the threat of the use of military force, which increases dangers and threats to the peoples. we therefore express our solidarity with the struggle of the peace movement, the workers and the many organisations which are developing the 'peace yes, nato no' campaign, including the demonstration to be held on 20 november in lisbon.
the world is going through very difficult times. and in these difficult times, we must have no doubt about who is our ally and who is our enemy. the united states of america is a key ally of europe. we are fighting terrorism on a global scale, against entities that don't even have faces, inside our common space and outside our common space, and this fight is for the safeguarding of values of civilization that we want to defend. but it is also because of the superiority of the values we want to defend that we must, and can, in the european parliament, in the commission, in the council, demand clear rules on data protection, the defence of personal rights and the right to privacy. the prevention, investigation and prosecution of crime cannot come at the expense of arbitrariness and the violation of individual rights. europe would not allow it, the united states would not allow it. and so, stressing once again the crucial importance of transatlantic relations and good cooperation at all levels between europe and the united states, we must here support negotiations which will allow for a future global agreement which sets rules, safeguards rights and, on a basis of reciprocity, does not demand less from the united states than what we are also prepared to grant to the united states in this common objective.
in writing. it is essential and urgent to conclude a general and comprehensive agreement with the us on data protection, avoiding that these issues are dealt with individually by the member states in the framework of bilateral agreements. i am fully aware of the difficulties involved in negotiating this agreement, as there is a very different approach to data protection on both sides of the atlantic. in the eu, the right to data protection is a right explicitly enshrined in both the charter of fundamental rights (article 8) and the treaty of lisbon (article 16). in the united states, there is no general law on privacy protection, nor even an explicit reference to a fundamental right to privacy in the constitution. in matters relating to access to data, rectification, reciprocity, judicial protection and independent supervision, much remains to be done. i therefore ask the council to approve the negotiating mandate for this agreement as soon as possible, so that the negotiations can move forward and achieve the urgently needed progress and the respective transposition of these results into their respective legislation as soon as possible.
we are all still thinking about the swift case (and it has already been mentioned several times in this debate) as we speak of this pnr agreement. and the swift case was illuminating. we may disagree about it, we have voted differently in this house, but there is one thing we all agree on: we have learned a great deal about what should be done and what should not be done. on what needs to be done, we have learned that parliament needs to be a very strong voice in defending the privacy interests of 500 million citizens. and this time, the fact that we have six political groups involved in drafting a resolution means that we intend to use that voice in an even more united and clearer way. but we also know a lot about what not to do. and here we are at a point in the process, in the pnr negotiations, where we can still use that learning. it is obviously a matter of the council giving its mandate, which we shall read very carefully, the commission negotiating, because it is the negotiator, and parliament giving its final word. but it's also much more than that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also for the commission to accept parliament's ideas in the course of this process. i remember that in swift, the idea of for example having a supervisor in washington was an idea of parliament. and in the course of this process, many ideas from parliament will emerge which must be incorporated into the negotiations, not, of course, by trampling on the commission's prerogatives, but because, in fact, the one who has the final de facto and de jure say in relation to these negotiations, and will certainly use it, is parliament. so there's something that i think we should not forget in this whole process and that we sometimes forget: this data is personal data. something which, as we say in our resolution when we talk about the concept of self-determination of information, means that we are using borrowed data which is from the citizens. this means that at every stage of this process and in their later use, they will have to have direct access to what is being done with their data.
the european commission has put forward a set of proposals for the exchange of passenger name record (pnr) data with third countries and the opening of negotiations on agreements with australia, canada and the usa. the establishment of general principles on pnr is one of the tools for preventing transnational crime and terrorism. however, it raises problems with regard to the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights. the pnr database is provided by passengers in the booking and check-in process, enabling the authorities responsible to investigate past crimes, prevent new crimes and carry out risk analyses. this security instrument is now used with third countries, leading to the need to establish legal security of data. these proposals focus in particular on the modalities of transfers of pnr data, on the rules for monitoring the correct application of the pnr agreements and on their reciprocity. parliament supports the commission's recommendations and the opinion of the european data protection supervisor, stressing that the privacy of passengers should not be violated and that the data should be used only and exclusively for the purposes for which they are intended.
i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner, the council representatives, the shadow rapporteurs and, in particular, the rapporteur of the european parliament. i am well aware of the efforts you have made in this matter, the difficulties you have had to face in order to reach a consensus solution. i would like to congratulate mr gauss on his achievement. i would like to go into the substance of the matter and point out three main directions of the solution that has been proposed: first, a concern for a link with reality, which is marked by the tendency to allow that which is different not to be treated in the same way. funds have different sizes, different characteristics, different associated risks. secondly, the direction of concern for financial stability, which is clearly seen in the definition of capital levels. thirdly, the concern to combat protectionist tendencies, which is well illustrated by the agreement on third countries. finally, this is a more transparent solution, with more security for the market and more protection for the consumer. it is a more european solution and a better one for the internal market. with better regulation we certainly have a better market.
we are talking about something very important, especially in view of the problems that have arisen in the financial sector with this type of alternative investment fund. but the truth is that the solutions found do not solve the underlying issues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is not enough to talk about supervision and regulation. what was needed was a clear position, putting an end to financial derivatives and hedge funds, and also ensuring effective public and political control over the whole financial sector, particularly over movements, including the abolition of tax havens at world level. the european union must set an example.
i would like to begin by congratulating commissioner barnier on the presentation of this important document. as you have said, the impact of the crisis we are experiencing is being felt in every sector of society and our economy, causing our citizens to become discouraged and distrustful of the single market. but it is precisely this single market that is one of the assets europe has to fight the present crisis. we therefore warmly welcome this communication, which represents a new ambition for the policies of the single market, allowing us to regain confidence in our model of a social market economy. in the present situation, the european union must pay particular attention to its 20 million small and mediumsized enterprises. in this context, one of the union's priorities should be to create mechanisms to address the problem of access to credit for these enterprises. we also highlight the commission's proposal to evaluate the small business act by the end of 2010 in order to make life easier for these companies, in particular by simplifying bureaucracy and taxation and by enhancing social responsibility. we hope that these fifty measures now presented will contribute to deepening the internal market and take full advantage of it, which can mean additional growth for the european economy.
in writing. 1. impressive effort to unify scattered legislation (1500). the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very important step in the process of harmonizing the laws of the member states. it's the first time we've seen the arsenal of our media. 3. the experience gained must determine the future. some measures have been successful, others are still halfway through or even at the beginning of the road. others are recognized as having failed when compared with their objectives. more than ever, we can use what science calls a "natural experiment". 4. we cannot complain about lack of technological resources: e-commerce, e-procurement and everything related to the european digital agenda, the digital single market, are increasingly used tools. the technology is there, the need is there. lack of initiative. 5. the opportunity is unique: strategy 2020 with indicators and targets. it should be well used. the seriousness of the crisis and the strengthening of the internal market as a contribution to its solution are all the greater. 6. very ambitious project. is the commission prepared to take advantage of the momentum? to recognize that this project must move forward on its own, without scattered dependencies?
in writing. the terms in which commissioner barnier has launched this debate are, in many respects, illuminating and enlightening. the market is, after all, the first reason and the ultimate goal of the process of european integration, as he pointed out. this vision, expressed here in such a frontal and unabashed way, is very revealing of the capitalist nature of this process of integration, which the treaty of lisbon has institutionalised and deepened. at a time when the people of europe are suffering the effects of the capitalist crisis - which the eu, with its policies, helped to create - the commission is here to propose as a solution to the crisis the continuation of the same path that led us to it. the deepening of the internal market, which guarantees greater profits to the large economic and financial groups of the european powers, is at the root of the growing inequalities within the eu, between states and within each state; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. 'business as usual' is the prevailing approach in the eu. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, there are still many aspects to be clarified, such as the definition of future projects and priorities. who will decide the priorities and on the basis of what criteria? i think we owe those answers to ourselves. but i would like to make a few specific remarks, particularly in relation to this first project on active and healthy ageing, which was the one presented to us. and these notes are, of course, a positive note, because i think it is a positive note that a sector of the population is being targeted which is particularly vulnerable in a europe which is getting older and is getting more and more disadvantaged. but i would like to add more questions to these questions, because it seems to me contradictory to propose a project in this area when at the same time we have nowhere to support this innovation. how are we going to support her? what's the basis? is any innovation viable in a context like the one we are witnessing, where there is a persistent and systematic attack on the welfare state, reduced access to health care, systematic cuts in services provided, continued disinvestment in this area? the title of the communication presented, 'innovation union, more jobs, better lives, better society', is ambitious. i would even say that i would have no problem personally subscribing to it, but let us agree that it is contrary to what has been the practice in the member states, with the cuts and with the austerity measures. i think that there will only be sustainable innovation if there are rigorous, sustainable, demanding public policies; if we do not, it is a match that goes out, little is left and little response we have to give to these populations.
we welcome the commission's efforts to put research and innovation at the top of the political agenda. we are looking at an integrated strategy to make the european innovation ecosystem more efficient and profitable in the service of a sustainable economy. european innovation partnerships emerge as an instrument and the major challenges they organize themselves into are sufficiently commonplace not to be the subject of controversy. however, it is not yet clear how the sub-thematic priorities will be defined and how the preponderance of each discipline within them will be defined. what degree of transparency is expected for stakeholder participation? how to arbitrate conflicting interests? what is the relative role of the commission, the member states and the regions? how can accountability be ensured within a structure that is complex? what will be the financial dimension of these partnerships? the commission and the council, mr president, must ensure excellence in implementation, which is not guaranteed by the few months of pilot testing provided for in the first partnership.
the challenge is to ensure that this 'innovation union' initiative, which the european commission says is emblematic, is not just a symbol, not just a banner for voting citizens to see, but is part of a genuine policy of development and social progress, where innovation is a significant instrument if it is properly supported, including in the financial field and in key public policies. the pilot project on active and healthy ageing is already an example of this. it will only have a meaningful effect if it is accompanied by public policies that ensure access to quality public health care that is affordable for all, dignified retirement, social protection and support facilities and services for older people that ensure a dignified life for them. without this, the project will be nothing but a fatal fire in the midst of the neo-liberal policies, the so-called austerity policies, which are making research and the quality of life of our populations, especially the elderly, more difficult. the question is: what will the european commission do to ensure that this initiative is not a fluke?
the international trade committee is currently assessing the global banana agreement reached within the world trade organization and the house will shortly be called upon to give its opinion on the reduction of customs duties on bananas imported from latin american countries. it should be clear that none of the outermost regions, whether madeira, where i come from, or any of the other eight, especially the canary islands, which are by far the most affected, are against the conclusion of such agreements. what these regions want is simply that, on the one hand, they should demand from others the same hygiene and plant health conditions and respect for workers' rights as are required of them to access the market, which is the most elementary form of justice, and, on the other hand, that they should be compensated in the exact measure of the damage caused to them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is true that in these agreements there are winners and losers, so let us take care of the losers because the winners do not need to.
i would like to draw attention to the very serious situation in western sahara. thousands of sarawis have set up camps on the outskirts of some of the main towns in the territory as a form of protest against the conditions in which they are forced to live, the various forms of repression to which they are subject and the holding of the referendum that could enshrine their right to self-determination. the violent action of the moroccan police and army this week in dismantling these camps has resulted in an undetermined number of arrests, hundreds of wounded and missing and unfortunately also fatalities. this action is compounded by the humiliating way in which citizens of member states of the european union have been prevented from travelling to western sahara in solidarity actions and have been expelled by the moroccan authorities, including a member of this parliament: the president of the world federation of democratic youth, as well as several journalists and members of ngos. the silence or misstatements of the european union and some of its officials in the face of this situation are shameful and regrettable. it is also complicit in silence, since it is a country which enjoys an advanced status granted by the european union. it is these unacceptable silences and complicity that we wish to denounce most strongly here.
demographic change is one of the eu's biggest challenges. a hundred years ago, the european population was 15% of the world's population. by 2050, it should represent only 5%. the situation is serious and is already having negative consequences on the economy, social security systems and the very composition of society. it is therefore urgent to take measures to encourage an increase in the birth rate. according to available studies, there is a large discrepancy between the number of children that families want and the number they actually have: 2.3 and 1.5, respectively. to meet the challenge of an ageing society, europe must adopt policies that promote female employment in all age groups and fully exploit the employment potential of women and immigrants. there are good practices, particularly in portugal, in relation to day-care and kindergarten services, improvement of maternity, paternity and parental leave systems, and policies for reconciling family and working life.
in writing. if the current demographic trend is maintained, there will be a profound change in the structure of the population and the age pyramid within a few years. the number of young people aged 0-14 is estimated to increase from 100 million (1975 index) to 66 million in 2050, and the working age population will increase from 331 million today to 268 million in 2050. in addition, the number of people aged over 80 will increase from 4.1% in 2005 to 11.4% in 2050. the ageing of the population is one of the biggest policy challenges facing the eu. the eu and the member states must act urgently and in concert, not least because we are already facing a high rate of youth unemployment and the difficulty of financing pension schemes. the promotion of equity and solidarity between generations, a fundamental value, will therefore have to be worked on in conjunction with pension systems, the budget, debt, health care and rehabilitation, the promotion of births and the defence of the family and anti-discrimination policies. this should be achieved by implementing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the eu 2020 strategy.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area. europe needs to invest more in science, open up its scientific systems, promote the free movement of researchers, and increase and promote excellence. in fact, today's reality is increasingly showing us a multipolar world in all sectors and also in science. to demonstrate this, it is enough to cite a few figures, such as 80% of researchers worldwide working outside europe and 69% of patents are also registered outside europe. europe invests less in science and innovation than japan, south korea and the united states, and this difference is mainly due to private sector investment. we need to overcome the weaknesses in our science and innovation system, from underfunding to fragmentation, from lack of conditions for innovation development to excessive bureaucracy. the european science system must be made more efficient, starting with simplification of funding rules. in this context, i had the honour of being appointed rapporteur for the simplification of the rules for participation in current and future european science and innovation programmes. this report can play a key role in europe and it comes at the right time, as we are beginning the review of the 7th. the framework programme and the preparation of the eighth. the program. as rapporteur, i have decided to open a debate on this subject and to hold a public consultation. i've issued over 8,000 invitations to a diverse set of entities. the number of contributions was immense, which shows the importance that our institutions and our citizens attach to this subject. the report proposes to simplify the control of financial aspects and to strengthen technical and scientific evaluation through peer evaluation based on excellence. the report aims to increase risk tolerance, simplify bureaucratic control mechanisms and create greater confidence in the scientific and business community. but the report marks only the beginning of a process which is not simple. the implementation of the recommendations will be the responsibility of the european commission and will require the monitoring and political support of parliament and the council to bring this task to a successful conclusion. the simplification process could be extended to other european programmes in the future, in particular to the structural funds. programmes with simpler rules will also be more transparent and more efficient. i would also like to thank my colleagues, the belgian presidency, the commission and all those who contributed to the public consultation for their cooperation. there is an urgent need to simplify access to research funding by developing a culture of evaluation based on a trusting partnership between all stakeholders in order to strengthen research and innovation in europe, thus making it an attractive place to live, work and be happy.
i would like to begin by congratulating our colleague the rapporteur on her work, because simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes is a necessity and, as our rapporteur points out, this is just one of the many reforms needed to improve the funding of research in the european union, so that it is more efficient and also more effective in defence of development and social progress. the report proposes that the scope of the commission's initial proposal, which we consider to be correct, be extended, in particular in important respects, as regards the financial regulation, the presentation of concrete proposals to simplify the calculation of average staff costs, the abolition of time-registration mechanisms, in particular time sheets, and it is equally important that the commission should allow reimbursement of costs incurred after the presentation of the proposal, once it has been successful, in order to facilitate the participation of industrial partners and, in particular, smes. if science, innovation and education are to be pillars of economic growth and job creation, it is essential to take account of the proposals contained in this report and to give greater value to science and research.
i should like to begin by congratulating mrs graça carvalho on the excellent report she has presented to us today and also on the way in which she has conducted this process in such a democratic way, not only inside but also outside the doors of this parliament. i think that this should be appreciated and i therefore leave her my thanks. the 7th framework programme is the largest and most comprehensive programme we have in the world in terms of research and the european commission's proposal for simplification is very welcome in this respect. but the proposal which parliament is putting forward here greatly enriches the commission's proposal. it enriches it by recognising that simplification is not enough, it enriches it by recognising the clear distinction between research and innovation, which is fundamental, it enriches it by valuing the different areas of research, it enriches it by enhancing clarity, transparency, participation and democracy, by providing equal opportunities in access to available funding, by choosing a model that is less focused on bureaucracy and bureaucratic control and much more geared towards research excellence, by recognising the importance of different scientific areas and the choice of partners and the alignment with partners that are treated on an equal footing. i would therefore like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the implementation of this proposal would have the clear result of improving the working conditions of all researchers in europe and of enhancing the dignity and quality of research in europe. that's what we should be working together for.
innovation and research are now at the heart of the new development strategy for our continent: the eu 2020 strategy. the emphasis on research and development has a real impact on economic activity, since only innovation guarantees future production with a high added value and, therefore, a level of job creation and an increase in the european union's global competitiveness. i have always argued that the regional level is best suited to stimulate research and innovation, thanks to the proximity between universities, public research bodies, large companies, smes and regional and local public authorities, particularly in the context of clusters; in my region, the azores, this is evident in the field of ocean and marine research carried out by the department of oceanography and fisheries of the university of the azores. encouraging innovation at regional level also helps to reduce social and regional disparities, which is why it is essential that cohesion policy continues to help to finance these activities in the outermost regions, such as the azores.
i would also like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on her work in this field. we are discussing a very specific programme to help economic recovery and, in this case, in a central area which is the energy sector. in the current context of crisis, it is essential that there are proposals like this to help create jobs. there is no prospect of economic conversion unless we make job creation a priority. this report sends a very positive signal when it calls our attention to how to respond to this level at the local level, to respond in a concrete way to local needs. we are in a period when we are debating and will continue to debate a whole series of legislative proposals in the field of energy, and we often tend to focus too much on what are the big projects, what are the big networks, and forget other causes of intervention where it is absolutely essential to intervene. and that is why i think this report can help us to invest not only in energy efficiency and renewable energy, which is very important, but also in bringing tangible benefits to local people, which naturally translates into tangible benefits for the european population as a whole. and that is why i want to end, madam president, with two final notes: i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative of adopting the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we are not aiming at that, we need much more, and i would therefore ask the commissioner what he is doing and intends to do to ensure that these needs are met.
we are all aware of the enormous difficulties facing the livestock sector in europe, pig farming in particular. this is due to a number of reasons which are very clearly set out in the text of the resolution we are discussing here today, which highlights the high cost of cereals. the european parliament cannot remain indifferent to this situation. it is therefore necessary to act immediately, using the mechanisms available, and in this respect i welcome the commission's decision to place the 2.8 million tonnes of cereals on the market, which is a positive but clearly insufficient measure. new instruments must be found in the short and medium term, particularly to combat speculation, and the commissioner has just focused his speech on this problem, and these solutions will have to be found in the long term in the context of the discussion on the new cap which we are now starting. i therefore call on the commission to take account of the recommendations made in the resolution signed by several political groups, including my own, because action is indeed needed, and very rapid action, mr commissioner.
we're probably on the verge of a new commodity bubble. international prices have risen by an average of more than 16% since june. never before has the futures market been so heavily traded, nor have so many financial instruments revolved around it. extremely low interest rates and the excess of money looking for good deals are leading to an inflation of trading and financial speculation of buying and selling intentions without any contact with the real economy. the numbers on the world's largest grain exchange, the chicago stock exchange, are staggering and are breaking records for trading purchases of soybeans, corn and wheat. the practical result is the transfer of these increases to real market prices, even in a year when there is a greater supply of cereals. these increases in the cost of animal feed are causing terrible damage to the already difficult situation of many of our farms, which, because of the crisis, will not be able to make them reflect on their sales and will hardly be able to accommodate them. it is therefore time to take action and protect our foodstuffs from financial speculation. i would therefore like to know what the commission intends to do in this matter.
the increase in cereal prices is another factor adding to and aggravating the crisis in the livestock sector. the current cap and the european union's trade policies do not ensure a fair income for farmers, especially small and medium-sized producers, nor do they prevent, but rather exacerbate, the effects of rising costs of production factors and the volatility of agricultural product prices. this volatility has causes which are not only, but not primarily, natural, and among them is the increase in speculation on food. any measures taken in this respect will always be limited in scope, unless they go beyond the prohibition of the instruments which make it possible, in particular financial derivatives. the safeguarding of production, the right to produce and food sovereignty and security requires an end to the submission of agriculture and food production to the market and to competitiveness. it requires effective mechanisms for regulation and intervention in markets, without which price volatility will be accentuated and concentrations will occur which only a small number of large producers survive.
in writing. - having regard to the requests for assistance submitted by ireland in relation to 850 redundancies in the air transport company sr technics ireland ltd in the nuts iii region of dublin, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree with the call on the institutions involved in the process to make the necessary efforts to speed up the mobilisation of the egf and with the european parliament's position that it deplores the serious shortcomings of the commission in the implementation of the programmes on competitiveness and innovation, in particular during an economic crisis which significantly increases the need for such support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: ireland sr technics, which will provide important support for workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. to better assist the reintegration of these workers into the labour market, the process for making the fund available will need to be made quicker and simpler. it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget lines for these transfers.
in writing. the irish company sr technics has been particularly hard hit by the impact of the current economic and financial crisis in the aviation industry, losing major maintenance contracts and having to lay off over a thousand workers. the loss of contracts and competition from regions with more competitive services raises fears about the viability of this and other companies in the sector. i cannot help adding to my agreement to the mobilisation of the fund to deal with this case the concern about the way in which airlines are cutting back on aircraft maintenance and repair costs and how this may affect flight safety.
in writing. - another mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund was approved in this case for the ie/sr technics application from ireland. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality to the principle of equal treatment for men and women. meanwhile, measures to support dismissed workers include vocational guidance and training for basic skills, vocational training for dismissed apprentices, both in and out of work, vocational training and support for entrepreneurship. finally, it should be stressed that the employment committee had to draw attention to the need to present the positions of the trade unions in relation to the processes developed, in order to ensure that, if they so wish, they can participate in the entire application process and its implementation.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be given to ireland which has submitted requests for assistance in relation to 850 redundancies in sr technics ireland ltd, an air transport company in the nuts iii region of dublin.
in writing. - in the context of ireland's request for assistance in relation to 850 redundancies in the air transport company sr technics ireland ltd in the nuts iii region of dublin, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission's proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree with: - the request to the institutions involved in the procedure to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf, stressing that egf assistance does not replace actions of corporate responsibility under national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of companies or sectors;- the commission's proposal for an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused european social fund resources, following the european parliament's calls for attention to the fact that the egf was created as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget lines for transfers;- the european parliament's position that it deplores the serious shortcomings of the commission in the implementation of the programmes on competitiveness and innovation, especially during an economic crisis which increases the need for such support;
in writing. − the application submitted by ireland for egf assistance in respect of 850 redundancies in sr technics ireland ltd meets all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a period of four months in an undertaking in a member state, including workers made redundant by their suppliers or downstream producers'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the european commission proposal and the amendments introduced by the european parliament, and i also welcome the fact that the commission, in line with earlier warnings to this effect by the european parliament, has identified an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused european social fund resources.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of a member of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, the member of the european parliament is accused, in essence, of offences relating to the management and accounting activities which he carried out as chairman of the board of directors of the polish youth card association and campus sp, during a period prior to his election to the european parliament. the crimes of which he is accused have nothing to do with his activities as a member of the european parliament, so we will have to lift his immunity in this case. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed waiver of immunity, considering that where such a request is made on the basis of reasonable grounds (even if only to the level of reasonable suspicion) it should be granted in the interests of the dignity of the institutions and also in the interests of those involved.
in writing. − given that alternative investment managers represent around usd 1 trillion in assets and thus play an important role in financing the european union economy, and at the same time taking into account the financial crisis that has emerged in the investment market, although these funds are not directly related to the origin of the crisis, it is considered necessary to regulate all financial services actors and for the most part to regulate these high-risk funds, protecting investors while promoting market stability. this regulation plays a key role, because it replaces national regulations with european regulations and provides for conditions to take account of the specificities of the different funds involved in accordance with their systemic risk. it is considered a time of crisis to establish rules of conduct for all financial services and at the same time to promote a genuine single market by making it possible to frame common rules at european level. the rules proposed by this regulation provide for greater transparency in the management of own funds and in marketing within the european union (in different member states through a simple authorization) and with third countries.
in writing. − whereas the recent financial market difficulties have shown that many of the strategies applied by alternative investment fund managers are vulnerable to some or even many risks affecting investors, other market participants and the markets themselves; i voted in favour of this parliament's position because i agree that it is necessary to ensure that the operation of alternative investment fund managers is subject to strict governance controls. alternative investment fund managers shall be managed and organised in such a way as to minimise conflicts of interest. i agree that the organisational requirements established in accordance with this directive should not prejudice the systems and controls established by national law relating to the registration of natural persons working in or for investment firms. it is necessary to specify the powers and duties of the competent authorities responsible for the application of this directive and to strengthen the mechanisms necessary to ensure effective cross-border cooperation in the field of supervision.
in writing. - this is the first european directive to regulate hedge funds, culminating a negotiation process that has lasted over a year. the new rules, the document says, are intended to 'control the activity of managers and ensure greater transparency in the management of these funds, to protect investors and promote the stability of financial markets'. but, in fact, it did not go to the bottom of the matter. we're not done with these hedge funds. the derivatives market continues. and so the mechanisms that allow speculation will continue. a great opportunity to really regulate the financial markets has been lost. the council and the majority of the european parliament have caved in to the enormous pressure of the financial lobby. the financial crisis has shown that the dysfunctions of the global financial system stem, on the one hand, from excessive exposure to risk, of which these funds are an example, and, on the other, from the weakness of the systems for managing such risks. the new european regulation sets common requirements for the authorisation and supervision of hedge funds, but does little to ensure that serious systemic risks do not persist. we cannot therefore vote in favour of this proposal. in the meantime, new directives are being discussed and negotiated, and it is still possible to get to the bottom of the matter, namely to put an end to these speculative funds. we'll see about that.
in writing. − the financial crisis of 2007 was dominated by large investment banks, which had in their product portfolio a number of alternative investment funds (hedge funds) which were not supervised at all and which often consisted of assets of dubious value. the crisis reflected this reality and now concrete measures must be taken to prevent future crises caused by financial mechanisms that no one controls and that often cannot be quantified. this directive sets out a series of rules which will make these financial mechanisms more transparent and controllable, so that they are one of the funders of the european economy and not the ones responsible for its collapse.
in writing. - there should be an explicit obligation to establish and maintain, for the categories of staff whose professional activities have a significant impact on the risk profile of the alternative investment funds they manage, remuneration policies and practices consistent with sound and effective risk management, the information and disclosure requirements and the specific safeguards against asset dismantling should be subject to a general exception as regards the supervision of small and medium-sized enterprises; - it is necessary to specify the powers and duties of the competent authorities responsible for the application of this directive and to strengthen the mechanisms necessary to ensure effective crossborder cooperation in the field of supervision.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because it is content to regulate only the behaviour of companies managing alternative funds, without touching on the nature and composition of the financial products in question. this commitment to "financial industry creativity" overlooks the inherently destabilizing and voracious speculative dimension that is decisive for this type of fund. on the other hand, the proposed regulation is extremely weak. its european dimension has so many exceptions and derogations that it does not break with the differentiated national regulatory model in force. the report also does not clearly distinguish between those who are engaged in this type of fund and those who are engaged in traditional banking, nor does it prevent the action of hedge funds located in tax havens. on the other hand, by setting 'thresholds' on the value of 'systemically important' assets, it opens the door to formal fragmentation processes which will put a large number of investment companies that want to be covered outside the directive. the security of the monetary assets of european citizens is too important a public good to be exposed to the timidity of the proposed directive.
in writing. − the financial crisis has made it clear that the activities of the various players in the financial markets, in particular those involved in the management and administration of alternative investment funds, need to be closely monitored. indeed, the impact of aifms on the markets in which they operate is largely beneficial, but recent financial market difficulties have shown that their activities are vulnerable to a whole range of risks, the proper management of which requires a coherent framework across the european union. the establishment at community level of a harmonised regulatory and supervisory framework is appropriate to the cross-border nature of the risks inherent in the activities of alternative investment fund managers and contributes further to the strengthening of the internal market. that is why i voted in favour of this position of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of considering that taiwan should be moved to the positive list as regards the granting of visa exemption. in view of the existing trade relations between the eu and taiwan, i believe that this decision will have a positive impact. most countries in the region with a similar level of development have already been granted visa-free travel and this decision reinforces the eu's decision to prioritise policies that contribute to economic growth and the creation of more and better jobs, as well as policies that contribute to competitiveness.
in writing. - i support the granting of visa-free travel to taiwanese nationals, thereby moving the country onto the so-called positive list. this decision will have a favourable economic impact on eu-taiwan relations, which is already an important eu trading partner (19th). the eu is also the largest foreign investor in taiwan. it should encourage tourism (the eu is already one of the most important destinations for taiwanese nationals). on the other hand, it does not increase the risks of illegal immigration, since the level recorded has been very low (average of 45 persons in 2006-2008), nor in terms of public security. it will strengthen regional coherence, as the vast majority of countries and entities in the region with a similar level of economic development already benefit from this visa-free regime: hong kong, macao, japan, south korea and singapore. i welcome the adoption by taiwan of the necessary measures to ensure a high level of security for identity cards and passports, with the introduction of biometric passports, as well as the announced measures to prevent the differential treatment of the various eu member states.
in writing. - i am very pleased to vote in favour of the european union's recognition that the conditions for visa liberalization for taiwan have been met. taiwan has witnessed over the past decades a manifest process of democratization and significant economic growth, ranking 25th in the world today. the european union and taiwan maintain economic and trade relations and cooperate in the fields of research, science, technology, education and the environment. in this sense, visa liberalisation with taiwan is strengthening eu-taiwan bilateral relations, strengthening partnerships in various fields and encouraging a reciprocal increase in tourism.
in writing. - anyone who has travelled outside the european union can only conclude that the freedom of movement within the union has been a factor which has substantially improved our lives. the abolition of internal borders is an important incentive for the mobility of people and goods. the fact that people can move within the union with relative ease makes the role of the external borders even more important and the need to adopt without complications a policy of entry into the european area that is suited to serving, first of all, the citizens of the member states. without neglecting humanity in the treatment of those seeking to enter our countries and respect for their rights, i believe that the union would do well to examine carefully which countries can be part of the so-called 'positive list'. in this respect, the inclusion of taiwan in the list seems reasonable to me in view of its levels of human and economic development and the effective existence and functioning of the rule of law on that island.
in writing. - the inclusion of taiwan in the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from visas is a clear provocation to the people's republic of china, violating the sovereignty of its institutions over its territory, and constituting a blatant attempt to foment divisions and violate its territorial integrity. if this decision is confirmed, it will be an implicit recognition of taiwan and a violation of international law and the un charter by the eu, because taiwan has never been a sovereign state, as it has been successively recognized by the un general assembly, which has never accepted its participation in the un. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is yet another position aligned with the us which has been violating china's sovereignty, as happened even recently when it sold arms to the supposed "authorities" of taiwan. it is unacceptable that the majority of the ep continues to support the violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, as happened in the case of kosovo with regard to serbia and is happening in the case of south sudan with regard to sudan.
in writing. − the criteria for third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement are established by means of a case-by-case assessment of the country's situation with regard to issues such as illegal immigration, public order and security, as well as the union's external relations, regional coherence and the principle of reciprocity. during the process of reviewing the lists, the european commission shall be assisted by the member states. it is your responsibility to decide whether a third country should be included in the positive list or, on the contrary, in the negative list. the information provided to the commission by the member states, together with the valuable data provided by the centre for information, reflection and exchange on border crossing and immigration (cirefi), helps the commission to adopt its conclusions. the inclusion of taiwan on the positive list is entirely justified and rewards its economic and democratic progress.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the inclusion of taiwan on the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement (the so-called 'positive list') as justified by the level of development achieved in terms of democratic governance, economic growth and education, and as a contribution to strengthening trade relations between the european union and taiwan. it should also be noted that this measure does not represent an increased risk to illegal immigration and public security, and the commitment of the government of taiwan to extend the visa waiver to all 27 member states by the end of 2010.
in writing. − it is considered essential that this support be applied to energy projects, especially in a time of crisis, stimulating the european economy by creating new jobs. the ep's request to include support for projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy is relevant, as it has to some extent forced a shift from a logic of essentially cross-border projects to a logic at regional level, which will have a wider impact throughout europe. it should be remembered that one of the main problems for regional smes to invest in renewable energy projects is due to the costs of the initial investments required, which is mentioned in this same regulation, and the introduction of technical support in the implementation of projects is commendable. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the treaty. as regards scope, the support provided for decentralised renewable energy projects in local environments and their integration into electricity grids is also considered necessary.
in writing. − the development of alternative renewable energy sources and the promotion of energy efficiency contribute to 'green' growth, a competitive and sustainable economy and the fight against climate change. by supporting these policies, the union will create new jobs and opportunities in a 'green' market, thus fostering the development of a competitive, secure and sustainable economy. it is essential to increase public funding for energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. europe must also create the conditions for more private investment in scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of energy. i also call for the 8th framework programme for research and technological development to give priority to energy security, the fight against climate change and the environment. only in this way will we be able to maintain the competitiveness of our industry, promote economic growth and create jobs.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the proposals for a relaunch of the european economy through increased financial support for energy projects presented in this report. i welcome the proposal to channel unused appropriations from the european energy recovery plan (eerp) to a new instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. through financial incentives, these projects could contribute not only to the relaunch of the european economy but also to strengthening the security of energy supply and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the eu. i also identify as a positive aspect of this initiative the possibility of enhancing its effectiveness through the application of funds at local and regional level. this will generate spillover effects such as the dynamisation of local and regional economies via smes, job creation, social integration or attractiveness of regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of including measures to support projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the european energy recovery programme. the financing of projects in this area will stimulate economic recovery, create employment opportunities and facilitate the fight against climate change and could become an important means of responding to the financial crisis.
in writing. the european union's energy dependence is well known and the way in which the member states are trying to cope with it is known, through the diversification of energy production methods and the focus on renewable energies. this effort has been abruptly slowed down by the economic and financial crisis in which we find ourselves. a programme of community financial support for energy to stimulate the economy could be a way of reversing the recent trend and resuming initiatives aimed at greater energy self-sufficiency in the member states. it is well known that the initial costs of projects of this nature are particularly high and that there is a collective advantage in supporting those who risk investing in this area. this sector has the potential not only to protect the environment but also to create more jobs in a europe that is less dependent on the outside world. i hope that the programme will bear good fruit and that it will serve what it was created for and avoid red tape and waste.
in writing. − this is an amendment to the regulation establishing the european energy programme for economic recovery (eepr), which provided for the allocation of eur 3.98 billion for 2009 and 2010. it is noted that this amount has not been used and the instrument of the sustainable energy financing initiative, proposed by the commission to use the remaining funds, is now being set up. the unused money (eur 146 million) will be channelled into this new financial instrument, which will go towards sustainable energy projects, especially in urban areas, covering, inter alia: - public and private buildings incorporating renewable energy and/or energy efficiency solutions; - investments in combined heat and power generation, including micro-generation, and in energy-efficient district heating/cooling networks, in particular from renewable energy sources; - decentralised renewable energy sources integrated into local environments and their integration into electricity networks; - micro-generation from renewable energy sources; - clean urban transport to support greater energy efficiency and the integration of renewable energy sources, with particular emphasis on public transport, electric vehicles and hydrogen and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; - local infrastructure, including efficient outdoor lighting of public infrastructure.
in writing. − improving energy efficiency and security are among the eu's top priorities. the eu2020 strategy is very ambitious in achieving targets in these areas. the commission has also been active in promoting the use of surplus funds to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects in the european energy recovery programme, especially in the context of a financial crisis. the emergence of investment projects in these areas is very important for economic growth and a cleaner economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the fact that the funds not used under the european energy recovery programme are being used to create a specific financial instrument to support initiatives in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy. in fact, the financing of such projects, in full compliance with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, makes a decisive contribution to the development of a sustainable economy, to combating climate change and to promoting employment, and is a particularly appropriate measure in the context of the economic and financial crisis in which we find ourselves.
in writing. − the focus on energy efficiency and security is one of the european union's current priorities. the scale of the economic and financial crisis in europe today is prompting a search for solutions that can provide a balanced response to the demands of today's world, in particular by making use of existing financial resources. i welcome the initiative to use the unused €114 million allocated to the energy sector under the european economic recovery programme to support energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives in the spirit of eu2020, with the aim of new investment projects contributing to job creation and increased competitiveness in the sector. the document stresses the importance of increasing decentralised investment, as the beneficiaries of the initiatives will be public authorities at various levels of government, whether at municipal, regional or national level. the role of the various actors will thus be strengthened and enhanced, demonstrating the success of the coordination carried out under the covenant of mayors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i consider that the transatlantic relationship is without doubt the most important external relationship for europeans. at the next eu-us summit, both partners should cooperate to advance a common agenda based on shared values such as the defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. at a time of grave crisis and on the eve of a decisive g20, the eu and the us, whose partnership accounts for half the world economy, must now more than ever work together closely to revive the world economy and to enshrine measures to regulate the world financial system. in the face of the major global challenges we face, such as the fight against climate change, the achievement of the millennium development goals, the middle east peace process, the specific situations in afghanistan and iraq and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, joint action is needed, based on the intensification of strategic dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the us within the framework of existing multilateral institutions, in particular the united nations, the osce and nato, in order to contribute to the creation of solutions.
in writing. − whereas the two partners are committed to cooperation to promote growth and employment in their economies and whereas the european parliament continues to advocate the completion of the transatlantic market by 2015, based on the principle of the social market economy, the realisation of which alongside the completion of the eu internal market itself will be a key element in the relaunch of growth and the global economic recovery. i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree that the transatlantic economic council (tec) is the most appropriate mechanism for managing the transatlantic economic relationship and that the partners should use the full potential of the tec to overcome the existing barriers to economic integration and to achieve a transatlantic market in 2015, based on the principle of the social market economy, which will be a positive response to the current economic and social crises. i also agree with the call for cooperation in the context of the transatlantic economic council (tec) on all matters affecting the regulatory environment of industries, especially smes, and for the approach of the eu's small business act to be followed when considering legislation with a transatlantic impact.
in writing. − the partnership between the united states and the european union is based on a shared history, culture, interests and values, as well as a shared responsibility to address global issues and common challenges. with their integrated economies, they together account for around half of the world economy, making this transatlantic partnership the main driver of global economic prosperity. it is essential that this summit can outline a joint and coherent strategy with new policies and instruments that can meet the new challenges of economic growth and job creation, at both the strategic and security levels. i hope that the message from this summit will be that the eu and the us should cooperate in an unprecedented way to reform their financial markets and institutions by learning from the mistakes of the recent economic and financial crisis and creating the conditions for recovery and job creation. i also call for an open dialogue between the two sides on how to achieve greater tolerance and respect for diversity in their respective communities, in the context of respect for all fundamental human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the forthcoming eu-us summit and the transatlantic economic council, as i consider it necessary for the current eu presidency to make efforts to secure an ambitious commitment from the united states at the forthcoming cancún summit. the eu has also been active in the fight against climate change, and the eu has been active in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - this resolution is quite clear about the objectives of the forthcoming summit and the announced intensification of the 'strategic dialogue' between the us and the eu. the changes taking place in the world, the crisis of capitalism, the emergence of other countries with considerable economic power, notably the so-called bric countries, are seriously threatening imperialist hegemony. the us and eu seek to 'coordinate' strategies, using a panoply of economic, diplomatic and military means to counter this development. the majority of meps are not wavering in their neoliberal stance but are instead intensifying it, expecting from this summit further steps towards greater 'economic integration' and the realisation of the 'transatlantic market', options which tend to generate more exploitation of workers and peoples, accentuating economic and social asymmetries between eu countries. the military option to secure dominance over resource markets is gaining dangerously more importance with greater "strategic cooperation" on "transatlantic security" between the us and the eu within nato. the choice of exploitation and war has been met by the people's struggle. we are convinced that on 20 november, in the demonstration against nato, and on 24 november, in the general strike called by the cgtp-in, the portuguese people will raise the bar in the fight against these policies.
in writing. − the eu-us relationship is based on a mutual commitment to democracy, the rule of law and human rights, the fight against terrorism and the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, these are their shared interests and values. we cannot forget that the eu-us account for about half of the world economy, is the most integrated and longest lasting economic relationship in the world and the main driver of global economic prosperity, the strength of the transatlantic relationship and commitment to it is even more relevant in the face of the current global financial and economic crisis. this summit is therefore a very important moment to further strengthen and improve these relations so that the objectives set for 2015 can be achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that:- the transatlantic economic council (tec) is the most appropriate mechanism for managing the transatlantic economic relationship and that the partners should use the full potential of the tec to overcome the existing barriers to economic integration and to achieve a transatlantic market by 2015, which will be a positive response to the current economic and social crises; the transatlantic economic council (tec) should be more strategic in order to address stakeholder concerns. - the approach of the eu's small business act should be followed when considering legislation with a transatlantic impact; the economic and financial governance structures that existed at the beginning of the crisis, whether at global level, in the us or in the eu, did not provide sufficient stability to the global financial system, and it is therefore understood that, with the increasing economic and financial interdependence, cooperation in the field of macroeconomic policies and supervision of the major economies should be strengthened. i also welcome the call for the european union and the united states to cooperate with china in order to resolve the global exchange rate dispute without applying protectionist or retaliatory measures, considering also that eu member states are subject to different market pressures compared to the us, especially with regard to sovereign bonds and the existence of a monetary union.
in writing. - the relations between europe and the usa are unique and historic. the resolution adopted today in the european parliament, which i voted in favour of, stresses the importance of strengthening cooperation and intensifying the strategic dialogue between the eu and the us in the context of the economic and financial crisis and the fight against the terrorist threat. in view of the important issues currently facing the world, it is indeed essential that decisive steps can be taken in the framework of the next eu-us summit to advance a comprehensive common agenda which, by appealing to shared principles, interests and values, will enable such challenges to be effectively addressed. it is also essential that the full potential of the transatlantic economic council can be harnessed to overcome the existing barriers to the completion of the transatlantic market by 2015 and to promote an integrated approach in the field of macroeconomic surveillance and policies and in the context of eu and us trade relations with third countries.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as a whole. on behalf of the fight against and prevention of the global threat of terrorism and other forms of transnational crime, i welcome and encourage the spirit of cooperation and engagement between the eu, the united states, australia and canada. i believe, however, that proportionality is a fundamental principle of data protection policies and that the objective of agreements to ensure that data transfers comply with european data protection standards must be strictly respected and upheld. i would also stress the importance of opening negotiations on an agreement on the transfer and protection of personal data with the united states in the wider context of mutual police and judicial cooperation. i would like to reiterate, however, that necessity and proportionality are fundamental principles which are essential to ensuring effectiveness in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider important the commission's recommendation to the council to authorise the opening of negotiations on agreements between the eu and australia, canada and the usa on the transfer and use of passenger name record data. these agreements should ensure that the determination to combat terrorism and crime does not compromise the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights, in particular the right to privacy, the freedom to choose information and data protection.
in writing. − personal data, their protection and the individual's right to such protection are matters which have received increasing interest from policy-makers and civil society itself. the technological means available pose a major challenge to respect for individual privacy. this concept too is being called into question by the increasing voluntary and involuntary exposure to which citizens are subject today. they also face the growing tension between the individual right to privacy and the collective right to security. all these issues have taken on worrying proportions after september 11, 2001, and remain on the agenda. more than with conventional police forces, terrorism and other forms of organised crime are today combated by the rapid and effective exchange of information between security agencies. without it, we would be exposed to concerted, transnational criminal action without the possibility of giving it adequate answers. for all these reasons, i believe it is essential to open negotiations with our partners so that we can face collective dangers together and that the data exchanged between the parties respects the principles of appropriateness and proportionality for the purposes for which they are intended.
in writing. - this resolution goes against the us-created dynamic in combating the 'threat of terrorism' and thus seeks to tie the eu member states to this same dynamic: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem, and it is not the commission's intention to do so. those responsible for this concession by the european parliament, which runs counter to positions taken in the past, are now trying to colour it with reference to alleged principles of 'proportionality' and 'necessity', which are always subject to dispute and subjective assessment. the argument that there is currently passenger name record (pnr) data which is already transferred without any control to third countries is not supported. if there is data that is being misused and processed, it must be investigated, reported and vigorously combated. this resolution is a concession which seeks only to make legal what is clearly outside the law at present.
in writing. the passenger name record (pnr) is another instrument in the fight against terrorism. the ep under the lisbon treaty has to help define a new external strategy with regard to the negotiations for a new pnr agreement between the eu, the us, australia and canada. the eu, as a strong supporter of the fight against terrorism and transnational and organised crime, is willing to negotiate agreements that are effective in this fight, while safeguarding and protecting civil liberties and fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on passenger name recording in the context of the european union's external strategy insofar as, by establishing a set of common basic principles for agreement with all third countries, european data protection standards are safeguarded, while serving the objectives of law enforcement and enhanced security, in particular the fight against terrorism. at the same time, the european parliament reiterates its claim to be kept informed of all relevant developments in this field, playing an active role which is its prerogative.
in writing. − the fight against terrorism and other forms of transnational and organised crime cannot be achieved without more effective, targeted and rapid data exchange both in europe and globally. it is, however, essential that the security measures adopted do not compromise the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights and the utmost respect for privacy and data protection, and it will therefore be important, in accordance with the principles of proportionality, to ensure that the collection and processing of data is limited to what is necessary for security purposes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on innovation partnerships because i consider it essential that european innovation partnerships exist as an essential element of the commitments to action under the flagship initiative. in the current context of tight public budgets, major demographic changes and ever-increasing global competition, europe's competitiveness and, above all, our future living standards depend on our ability to integrate innovation into products, services, businesses and processes and social models. this is why i consider it paramount that innovation has been placed at the heart of strategy 2020. innovation is our best way of tackling the major social challenges we face, such as climate change, energy and resource scarcity, or health and ageing, and the answers to these are crucial to a fair, economically, socially and environmentally sustainable europe.
in writing. - i welcome the 'innovation union' initiative which aims to put in place an integrated european innovation policy, relying on well-coordinated cooperation at regional, national and european level. i welcome the creation of european innovation partnerships, as they are an innovative concept that aims to create synergies between existing and possibly new european and member state initiatives in the field of innovation. the first proposed theme for the european innovation partnership - active and healthy ageing. some of the most important social challenges facing europe, such as population ageing, require radical innovation that crosses sectoral boundaries. responding to ageing requires change at every level, from labour law and pensions to new models of care, including self-managed care and new types of housing. combating new risks or inequalities requires innovative initiatives in the social field, not only through the application of new technologies but also through innovative organisations. i call on the commission to ensure that the partnerships are financed by pooling the resources of the european union, the member states, the regions and other public and private actors, in accordance with clear and transparent criteria.
in writing. − european innovation partnerships are an innovative concept that aims to create synergies between existing and possibly new european and member state innovation initiatives, and to maximise and accelerate results and benefits for society. they are therefore an important tool at a time when states are grappling with important economic issues, where i believe that innovation can be an effective strategy. the theme proposed for this first pilot partnership - active and healthy ageing - is welcome. in view of the fact that europe's population is ageing and that this is a factor that is valued negatively, it is important that europe knows how to use its human capital in a wise way, especially those who, being older, have more experience and, in many cases, important knowledge to pass on.
in writing. − innovation is one of the engines of the economy and will make a decisive contribution to the eu2020 strategy. the partnerships advocated here can be decisive in this respect, as they create very important synergies to maximise and accelerate innovation processes. it is also important that the pilot project focuses on active and healthy ageing, as the ageing of the european population is an undeniable reality. the eu must also continue to support other areas of innovation despite the financial crisis we are living in, because without it we will not be able to achieve the ambitious objectives already outlined for the eu in the eu2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that innovation partnerships are, in the present context, an important instrument in building an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable europe, and i also welcome the choice of the theme for the first partnership - active and healthy ageing.
in writing. − innovation is the best way to successfully meet the challenges facing the european union today. it is a means of ensuring that, in a period of austerity, demographic change and the threat of globalisation, europe's competitiveness is strengthened and job creation is the focus of all priorities. the eu 2020 flagship initiative 'innovation union' aims to launch innovation partnerships to accelerate research, development and market-leading innovation, starting with the area of healthy ageing as a pilot project. i think it is appropriate that other areas should also be covered, such as young people, researchers and small and mediumsized enterprises. it is desirable that better work is developed at the level of partnerships because we have a unique potential in terms of values, creativity and diversity. i therefore call for more and better investment in education, research and development, priorities which must not only be protected from budget cuts but also have their funding increased.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for advocating the intensification of osce efforts to mitigate human contributions to global warming. more effective cooperation between osce states in combating threats and difficulties caused by economic and environmental factors can make an essential contribution to security, stability, democracy and prosperity in the region, as there are economic and environmental factors underlying the conflicts themselves.
in writing. - we live in a world where safety has become a fundamental concept. whether security in its most traditional sense (in the concept of defence) is economic security, environmental security, security of energy supply or security of transport. this is why the osce, as an integral part of the euro-atlantic and euro-asian security architecture (in its most global dimension), which covers a physical space from vancouver to vladivostok, plays a key role. i agree with the final recommendation that parliament should reflect on its participation in the osce parliamentary assembly and consider the possibility of establishing a genuine permanent delegation. i would now like to stress that the eu cannot relinquish its say in sensitive matters such as the defence of respect for human rights and the observance of international law within this organisation.
in writing. - eu security in all its aspects is a matter that cannot be neglected. the osce is a mirror of this, as it is an integral part of the euro-atlantic and euro-asian security architecture, which is characterised by a comprehensive concept of security, including the political-military, economic, environmental and human dimensions. the osce also has a great diversity of members, bringing together countries from vancouver to vladivostok. i therefore think it is important that the eu should make an effort to strengthen its role in the osce, given its global nature and the diversity of its members.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the potential of the osce must be used effectively and that there is a need for a thorough reflection on how the european union can assume greater responsibilities and participate more actively in the achievement of common objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on demographic challenges and solidarity between generations, because in the current context, where demographic challenges are facing an unprecedented reality with increasing life expectancy and falling birth rates, they constitute one of the most urgent challenges for social policy in the coming years. urgent decisions are needed, especially at a time when the supply of jobs for the youngest and the sustainability of pension systems for the oldest are being called into question. intergenerational solidarity is needed to enhance the optimisation of the contributions of both generations. the only way this can be achieved is by ensuring free and equal access to employment and lifelong learning and career progression in all age groups, ensuring on the one hand that the youngest are in employment and on the other that the contribution that older people can still make to society is exploited, in particular through voluntary work and the possibilities for them to continue working beyond the established retirement age.
in writing. - we are faced today with a high rate of youth unemployment and underfunding of pension schemes. we must find a joint solution, because, especially in an ageing society, youth must be regarded as a precious and essential resource which must necessarily be mobilised for the pursuit of social and economic objectives. if the current trend cannot be reversed, it is estimated that by 2030, as a result of demographic change, the ratio between the active and inactive population will be 2 to 1. while the main instruments for promoting equality between generations are the responsibility of the member states, the eu has a key role to play in terms of monitoring, monitoring the correct and effective implementation of eu anti-discrimination legislation, as well as promoting the exchange of best practices and action programmes. it is essential that the eu and the member states promote new initiatives for active, healthy and dignified ageing. at the same time, it is necessary to establish long-term prospects for young people, as well as to take measures to encourage their mobility during their studies, to ensure quality vocational training and to create more jobs, ensuring their full participation in society.
in writing. − equity and solidarity between generations within the european union are set to be one of the most important challenges for european social policy in the coming decades. i therefore vote in favour of the measures and initiatives proposed in this report. societies and economies must begin a paradigm shift in how they equate population ageing. instead of viewing them as a burden and synonymous with increased costs, older people, thanks to their experience and knowledge, should be seen as an asset in the company culture. companies should be encouraged to develop age management strategies that increase their competitiveness by taking advantage of the experience and specific qualities of their older workers. i also believe that the ageing population provides an important opportunity to improve competitiveness and to encourage innovation potential and thus boost growth and employment. finally, i would like to express my concern about the high rate of youth unemployment in the eu and the need to create more jobs and establish long-term prospects that will enable them to participate fully in society.
in writing. - as i said earlier, european society is ageing, which is often seen as a negative factor in economic analysis. of course, the reversal of the demographic pyramid in states that are still heavily welfare states means that there are fewer and fewer people contributing to the system and more people dependent on that same welfare system. more aging population means, in very gross terms, more pension spending and more health care costs. however, a caring society cannot look at aging in this way. it is essential to create active ageing solutions and ways to harness the immense human potential of older people, which, even in a competitive market like the european one, still means added value (either in terms of experience or knowledge). at the other extreme, we cannot talk about population ageing without talking about birth rate policies that encourage the birth of children in the european union. the average birth rate in the eu is 1.5 children, one of the lowest in the world, and this can only be reversed by strong policies that support families and do not penalise (economically, fiscally and professionally) those who decide to have children.
in writing. - this is a report full of contradictions. on the one hand it uses language that praises the elderly, but on the other hand it presents substantive measures that in practice call into question the rights of the elderly and workers in general. examples of this include:- the encouragement of private pension systems, thus giving priority to the financial sector, forgetting the serious consequences that these practices have already had, especially in the us, which left millions of pensioners with nothing, forcing the state to intervene;- the encouragement of state intervention to increase part-time work and labour flexibility, ignoring the consequences of these practices in the devaluation of work, low wages, job insecurity and the increase in workers with incomes below the poverty line;- the encouragement of increasing the age to obtain the right to retire. for all these reasons, we voted against the report, although we acknowledge some positive aspects, but these are called into question by the neoliberal policies which it advocates.
in writing. − demographic challenges and solidarity between generations are the keys to a better future. we must therefore combat very strongly all the factors which cause low geographical growth, namely: the lack of services, the low levels of assistance, the slow and difficult integration into the labour market, the long periods of precarious or temporary employment and the insufficient support for young couples are among the reasons which lead young people to protect the foundation of a family household and procreation. on the other hand, with the average life expectancy increasing, the number of elderly people is increasing, with the resulting consequences. solidarity between generations must be strengthened if we are to have a fairer and more balanced society.
in writing. − in a european union where more and more people are living longer, where the birth rate is generally low, where the demographic pyramid is already inverted, it is important that we address the 'demographic challenge and solidarity between generations', and i warmly welcome the opportunity of this report. i also welcome the content of the report in general, particularly as regards the future prerogative of senior citizens to be able to continue working if they so wish, which is in line with the 'active ageing' being promoted, and the promotion of the employability of young people who have been unemployed for more than four months.
in writing. − intergenerational equity will be one of the main challenges for social policy at european level in the coming years. it is therefore entirely welcome that this report is timely, as it highlights the need to safeguard solidarity between generations and points out ways of doing so, particularly in promoting active ageing policies.
in writing. − solidarity is one of the values governing the european union, so it is essential that it is embodied in terms of equity between generations. member states face a set of demographic and social challenges that require the establishment of intergenerational solidarity. the positive increase in life expectancy and the decline in the birth rate will have perverse consequences on european social systems if concrete measures are not achieved. in view of the current situation, parliament believes that a dialogue aimed at intergenerational relations is necessary. the report covers such cross-cutting sectors as education and employment for the elderly and young, health and social benefits policies, family and birth policies, and the development of social systems, culminating in migration policies to address the effects of an ageing society. i hope that the initiatives in the report will be implemented and that justice and intergenerational dialogue will become a reality in the european union.
in writing. − this report proposes to simplify the control of financial aspects and to strengthen technical and scientific evaluation through peer evaluation based on excellence. but the report marks only the beginning of a process which is not simple. the implementation of the recommendations will be the responsibility of the european commission and will require the monitoring and political support of the european parliament and the council to bring this task to a successful conclusion. the simplification process could be extended to other european programmes in the future, in particular to the structural funds. programmes with simpler rules will also be more transparent and efficient. i would like to thank my colleagues, the belgian presidency, minister benoit cerexhe, commissioner maire geoghegan-quinn and the commission services and all those who contributed to the public consultation for their cooperation. there is an urgent need to simplify access to research funding by developing a culture of evaluation based on a trusting partnership between all stakeholders in order to strengthen research and innovation in europe, making it an attractive place to live, work and be happy.
in writing. − research and development are of crucial importance to achieving the challenges the european union has committed itself to under strategy 2020. european research and innovation programmes have in recent years experienced a significant growth in both the number of applicants and the budget allocated to them. however, it is difficult for small and mediumsized organisations to cope with the complexity and bureaucracy inherent in these programmes. access to programmes and the preparation of proposals are still very difficult, especially for newcomers, the administrative burden for project administration and accounting is considered too high and the average time between grant award and payment is still too long. it is therefore urgent to update and simplify the mechanisms involved in the research framework programmes in order to simplify the monitoring of the financial and administrative aspects of projects, while strengthening the scientific and technological evaluation process. i welcome the european commission's initiative to challenge this status quo and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs graça carvalho, on her excellent work in proposing concrete measures to improve the current system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report which aims to simplify the financial and implementation rules of the seventh framework programme. the report is widely agreed on, as such simplification is essential to improve the competitiveness and impact of european research. in a union whose strategy is to develop a knowledge-based economy, it is essential that the main european instrument for r & d funding responds directly to the needs and concerns of the scientific community: • to improve the accessibility of the programme • for a more attractive common research area • for a greater focus on excellence • for a stronger base of support for technological innovation and technology transfer to european companies. the report provides the commission with clear guidelines and options for simplifying the fp7 programme. the commission must continue this effort in preparing the future fp8, putting the user at the centre of the programme. european research cannot continue to be burdened with the kind of procedural errors that have hitherto affected the framework programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that research makes a fundamental contribution to economic growth, job creation and environmental sustainability. the european commission, alongside the simplifications it has proposed, should draw up a detailed plan for the development of research infrastructures in the different member states, to ensure equal opportunities in accessing funding.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs maria da graça carvalho on her work on this report and on the vote obtained, both in committee and in plenary. this success was, of course, the fruit of their work and their commitment to innovation, research and science. i know that research and innovation are key contributors to economic growth and job creation, which in the current context is key to the eu's economic recovery as outlined in the 2020 strategy. the official discourse on encouraging research and innovation is not enough. as the rapporteur points out, recently '13 000 researchers signed a petition calling for greater simplification and confidence in eu research funding'. it is therefore important, as the report says, to simplify administrative and financial procedures. this report points the way forward. i hope the same will be true.
in writing. − simplifying access to the research framework programmes is essential to motivate potential applicants to access them, so that important funds are not wasted. we must not forget that research makes a fundamental contribution to economic growth, job creation and sustainable energy that is compatible with the environment. it is therefore time to start coordinating national, regional and european research policies so that there are no major obstacles to cost-effective solutions. we therefore need to move towards further simplification and harmonisation of rules and procedures, simplification not being an isolated objective but rather a means of ensuring the attractiveness and accessibility of research funding in the eu.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the adoption of this report, as it focuses on one of the engines of the present and future development of the european union - the promotion of research and innovation - and gives voice to the sentiments shared by its main protagonists - the need to simplify and monitor the financial and administrative aspects of projects, while at the same time strengthening the scientific and technological evaluation process. this report by the european parliament should be taken into account in the simplification required in the framework programmes for research, technological development and demonstration, fp7 and fp8, as well as in all the programmes promoted by the european commission in the field of science and research.
in writing. - i would like to begin by highlighting the excellent work done in this respect by my colleague maria da graça carvalho, allowing me to take this opportunity to publicly congratulate her. given the crucial role of research in economic growth and job creation, it is important to avoid at all costs that excessive bureaucracy and unjustified delays act as barriers to participation by the scientific community. the proposals for simplification put forward to make eu research funding more attractive and accessible are therefore to be commended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because agriculture is going through a very difficult period in view of the rising cost of animal feed. we're probably on the verge of a new commodity bubble. international prices have already risen by an average of more than 16% since june. never before has the futures market been so heavily traded, nor have so many financial instruments revolved around it. extremely low interest rates and the excess of money looking for good deals are leading to inflated trading and financial speculation, buying and selling intentions, with no contact with the real economy. the numbers from the world's largest grain exchange, the chicago stock exchange, are staggering. record purchases of soybeans, maize and wheat are being negotiated. the practical result is the transfer of these increases to real market prices, even in a year when there is a greater supply of cereals. these increases in the cost of animal feed are causing terrible damage to the already difficult situation of many of our farms, which, because of the crisis, will not be able to see them reflected in their sales and will hardly be able to accommodate them.
in writing. - as i have warned on several occasions, the eu's overregulation can quickly become a factor in the worsening of the competitiveness of certain sectors. livestock is one of them. i remember hearing a british farmer in this parliament talk about the difficulties he had when he saw that the meat of his animals could not compete on the market, given the level of requirements imposed on it by the legislation. that is the risk we are taking and it is clearly identified in this proposal. it is also clear that the crisis in the sector could lead to a significant reduction in meat production throughout the eu, which will lead not only to the disappearance of small and medium-sized producers but also to a crisis in the supply of the market, to higher prices and to greater dependence on imports. i cannot forget a subject which is important for portugal, namely milk production, and i would remind you that the policy of the former commissioner fischer-boel on milk quotas was harshly criticized and was strongly and persistently opposed by farmers. i therefore urge the commission once again to look into this matter.
in writing. the resolution adopted recognises the serious crisis in the livestock sector, aggravated by the rise in cereal prices, and calls on the commission to come forward with proposals for measures to support the sector. it also called on the commission and the council to ensure that the cap post-2013 is adequately financed in order to ensure the viability of all eu agricultural producers. but by defending policies which are at the root of the problems which the sector, and in particular small and mediumsized producers, now face, it is proving to be deeply contradictory and even contrary to the interests of these producers. the resolution reiterates its support for the submission of agriculture and food production to competition and the free market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'food' in the definition of foodstuffs. we have said it before and we repeat it again: we must break with a system which treats food as if it were just another commodity, which allows speculation on food, leading, as has been happening, to explosive situations from the point of view of food dependence and price volatility.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation (com (91) 0173 - c4-0414/91) by mr nuno melo, in writing. i am voting in favour of this resolution because at the moment the rising costs of the factors of production and the costs of complying with eu regulations are making it impossible for european farmers to be profitable in their livestock farming, and at the moment the prices obtained by some farmers for meat products are below their cost of production. the european agricultural sector is being sacrificed in order to enable the eu to export to these countries other products, mainly from the livestock sector, from a wide range of economic sectors. the resolution calls for measures that could help to combat the crisis in this sector, which is being severely hit by speculation in commodity markets and by scrupulous compliance with eu regulations. nuno melo (ppe), in writing. - (pt) i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken this decision.
in writing. - the present motion for a resolution on the crisis in the european union in the livestock sector was tabled by the ppe and has involved several members, including myself, who are concerned about the serious situation facing european producers in this sector and are determined to intervene to help them overcome this period of difficulty. in this context i voted in favour of this resolution as a strong call for attention to this sector and in the conviction that the action now undertaken can indeed contribute to the sustainability and development of the sector. in this resolution i stress the insistence that the interests of european farmers be safeguarded in the context of the post-2013 cap and also in the context of bilateral negotiations, especially with mercosur. the measures proposed include: efficient and flexible meat market mechanisms; the fight against speculation in cereals and the creation of a safety net in this sector; adequate protection for farmers in the most disadvantaged areas and the strengthening of the power of organizations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is curious to draw attention to the current crisis in the livestock sector and its consequences, and i hope that the necessary measures will be taken to ensure the sustainability and development of this sector.
in writing. - the livestock sector in the european union is seriously threatened, largely as a result of the recent rise in cereal prices. the effect of speculation in the cereals sector on livestock farming is worrying. it is not only the volatility of the market in the context of the economic crisis we are experiencing, but also the serious threat of disruption in all sectors of livestock farming, which makes it urgent to adopt a series of real measures capable of combating the crisis we are witnessing and preventing future negative developments. it is desirable that, in addition to the necessary technical rules on food safety and animal welfare, other improved measures be put into effect as a matter of urgency, which can stop the current situation from escalating to a more serious level, such as the release of cereal stocks for intervention, in order to alleviate the problem of price volatility and prevent the worsening of the delicate situation we have been witnessing.
the situation in western sahara is serious enough for this parliament to postpone taking a position on the matter. the facts are undeniable and are before our eyes. we have seen the images of the destruction of the sahrawi camps, we know that this destruction has resulted in deaths, injuries, that many people are still missing, we know that a member of this parliament was prevented from going to the camps and was expelled by the moroccan authorities, we know that the same thing has happened to members of national parliaments, journalists, members of non-governmental organizations, we know all this and we cannot ignore it. not to take a position on this now would be an incomprehensible and unacceptable attitude of complacency and even complicity, which would in no way dignify this institution and the values it claims to defend. i therefore call on all of you to make the wise decision to support the vote on a resolution on this subject in this plenary by voting in favour of this proposal.
the intervention in ireland proves above all that the european union should have come forward with a common solution for european banks, especially for the big banks, before it has dealt with almost any other matter. in practice, we are now openly discussing the bankruptcy of the states and we do not yet have a clear solution for european banks. the intervention in greece, and especially its evolution, prove that europe needs european solutions and that the solution that has been found is above all a solution of bilateral aid, which subjects each country to the judgment of its partners with criteria that are neither clear nor stable. in this context, the european central bank has been an anchor, filling in some of the gaps, particularly in relation to the vulnerability of sovereign debt, but make no mistake, we cannot continue in this way in the medium term. so my three questions are as follows, mr governor of the central bank: firstly, what is the position of the central bank with regard to a stable figurehead for the construction of a genuine system of solidarity and solidarity between member states with regard to sovereign debt? we need it and it is good that we do not refuse to look at reality. secondly, what were the differences, if any, that led the european central bank not to subscribe to all the recommendations of the report of the task force led by van rompuy? and thirdly, does the european central bank believe that the european union can survive with the growing growth divergences among the member states and without any common instrument to bring these growth strategies into line?
the imbalances and divergences between the euro zone economies are getting worse, despite all the promises and all the proposals, and the question that arises is this: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial perspective, and whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the financial perspective. don't you think it's time we paid some attention to social sustainability? for example, what is happening in portugal, where workers are going on a general strike this week to protest against so-called austerity policies, which are wage cuts, which are investment cuts and which will cause an even more serious recession. do they not think that it is time to change policies and give full priority to social sustainability, to create solidarity mechanisms, namely... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of exotic species is one of the main elements of disruption of ecosystems and one of the main causes of loss of biodiversity worldwide. as the commission itself acknowledges, a significant part of the introduction of exotic species into europe's coastal and inland waters is due to aquaculture and stocking practices. the amendment proposed by the commission to the regulation on the use of exotic and locally absent species in aquaculture is based on the results of a research project involving several european institutions, the impasse project, a concerted action on the environmental impacts of exotic species in aquaculture. this project proposes a more detailed and demanding operational definition of a closed aquaculture facility than the current one. according to this definition and the project conclusions, the degree of risk associated with exotic species can be reduced considerably, even to an acceptable level, if the possibilities of escape of target and non-target organisms during transport are eliminated and if clear protocols are defined in the reception facilities. in view of the results of this project, the commission proposes to relieve operators of unnecessary administrative formalities by exempting introductions and translocations to closed aquaculture installations from the permit procedure. it should be stressed that while the risk assessment process is based on scientific and technical analysis, the decision on the acceptability of the risk is a political decision. we therefore believe that the facilitation of the introduction of exotic species into aquaculture should be matched by the strictest possible definition of the requirements to be met by closed aquaculture installations, in accordance with the results of the impasse project. the need for supervision of installations should also be established in order to ensure that all technical requirements proposed by experts are effectively taken into account and respected during the operation of the installations. the same applies to the care to be taken when transporting target and non-target species to and from the installation. these were the main concerns which guided the drafting of the report and the amendments proposed to the commission's original proposal. allow me to add one additional consideration: the sustainable development of aquaculture requires strong support for scientific research and technological development in the area of native species farming, allowing for diversification of production and food supply and an increase in its quality, while also ensuring greater environmental safety. the present legislative initiative should therefore be accompanied by a strong stimulus in this area. the potential of aquaculture must be exploited, but its limitations must also be overcome in an environmentally sustainable way. among other things, it will be important to reorient the research framework programme to allow adequate coverage of this important area of research. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, with whom we have been able to do a useful job, and the commission and council services, the spanish presidency and now also the belgian presidency, for the work we have done over these months.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the gallagher report and, in particular, the multiannual management plan for the carp stock, it is essential to defend the amendment proposed by the ppe, and which was made by mrs patrão neves in particular, in view of the three objectives of the green paper and the reform of the common fisheries policy: the environmental objective, which is perfectly respected in the report, and the economic and social objectives, both economic profitability and decent living for the professionals. in this line, it is very important that we make a distinction: when we talk about western carp it is important to distinguish between zone viii c, the surrounding area of the cantabrian coast which is mainly geared to small-scale fishing and supports a large number of stocks in portugal, spain and france in particular, and the northernmost zone, namely the industrial fishing zone, which is therefore mainly designed for economic profitability. that is why an amendment to this report is necessary, so that it is not only in line with the fundamental objectives of the green paper on the common fisheries policy or the reform of the common fisheries policy, but also with the recommendations that the council has made in the 2011 tac regulation, in which the carp in ices zone viii c is mainly considered for small-scale fishing, while the northern part of this western zone is mainly for industrial fishing. only by taking this approach, which takes account of the specific nature and the vocation of each area of western carp living, can the objectives of the common fisheries policy be truly protected.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your comments on my report and i would like to use this time to make a few comments on the multiannual plan for carp and the amendment i tabled on behalf of the gue/ngl to mr gallagher's report. the aim of this amendment, which the rapporteur's amendment no 7 does not fully address, is to clarify the specificities of the different fleets and to make it clear that these specificities and the final destination of the fish must be taken into account when setting the tacs. small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing has specific features distinct from industrial fishing of an economic and social nature, but not only. when it comes to setting fishing effort limits, fisheries that aim at the public supply of fish to populations for fresh consumption should not be treated in the same way as industrial fisheries, which aim at the processing of fish. as regards the different fleets and the technical question that has been raised, i also disagree with the rapporteur's position. we are indeed talking about the same stock, the same source, but it is a source which, as has been mentioned, evolves in different fishing areas: coastal and artisanal fisheries operate preferentially in one fishing zone, industrial fisheries in another. we are therefore talking about well-defined areas and it seems to us compatible, indeed necessary, for the rational management of the stock that the tacs be defined in accordance with each of these different fishing zones. this is because, as has also been pointed out here, the rational management of stocks must take account of the natural environmental and biological aspects, but also the economic and social aspects. so we should not treat in the same way what is actually different.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dalli, the patient must have the right to know as much as possible about his illness and the medicines available to treat it. but how do you tell information from advertising? where and how can we get objective and unbiased information? there are different interpretations of the existing texts, so they must be harmonized, strengthening the sovereignty of the citizen. information must be reliable, validated by the authorities, independent, accessible and targeted at a general, non-specialist audience. the aim is to create a more informed and responsible citizenship of the end-user. the deadline for tacit approval by the european agency should be extended from 60 to 120 days. the requirement to state reasons for rejection reinforces the contradictory and balances the final result. the emea has a key role as the privileged source of objective information. i would like to end by congratulating the rapporteur, mr fjellner, on his work and congratulate him on having accepted almost all the proposals i put forward in the committee on the internal market as rapporteur for the opinion.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to express our solidarity with all the regions affected by natural disasters and express our deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the storms. 2010 began with the world in a state of shock at the scale of the catastrophe over the autonomous region of madeira, portugal. soon after the storm, xynthia lashed france. extreme weather events also hit spain, belgium, germany and the netherlands, causing considerable damage. in central europe, summer floods are becoming more frequent and devastating. in the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, austria, poland, italy and the united kingdom, thousands of people have been forced to leave their homes and several factories have shut down. in southern europe, hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest are consumed by fires every year. climate change is expected to worsen the situation and there will be an increase in natural disasters with severe damage in terms of human losses, environmental degradation and reduced economic activity. prevention, investigation and proper risk management are essential. according to the un international strategy for natural disaster reduction, better urban planning of coastal areas and preservation of ecosystems can reduce the impact of natural disasters. civil protection mechanisms should also be strengthened, community response instruments simplified and the rules for implementing regulations made more flexible. the council has not yet adopted the new regulation on the solidarity fund, which was approved by the european parliament. i would also remind you that parliament recently approved the proposal to set up a european drought observatory as a centre for the knowledge, mitigation and monitoring of the effects of drought. greater investment in prevention and more care in staff preparation and training can also make a difference.
madam president, it is of the utmost importance to highlight the impact of wars and conflicts on women and children at a critical moment like the one we are living in, when wars are dragging on in iraq and afghanistan, when serious conflicts are being fuelled as in the territories of palestine occupied by israel or in western sahara by morocco, when inequalities are multiplying and poverty is being aggravated by neoliberal policies, when new threats are being created, as happened this weekend in lisbon with the nato summit and the adoption of its new strategic concept. that is why, in the streets of lisbon last saturday, in a peaceful demonstration called by the campaign "peace yes, nato no", which brings together more than 100 organizations, many tens of thousands of people marched, men and women, who called for peace, for social justice indispensable to security, who shouted and demanded the dissolution of nato, nuclear disarmament and respect for the rights of peoples in the defense of peace. tomorrow, in the general strike that will take place in portugal, women and men will again be fighting against anti-social policies, which affect everyone but which are particularly discriminatory towards women, demanding other policies that respect the dignity of those who work, that promote development and social progress, an indispensable condition for peace.
madam president, we have already referred to the security council resolutions and the development aid plans and highlighted the progress made, but the truth is that women continue to be the main victims of armed conflict. they're victims, but they don't make decisions. women must be involved in the whole process of conflict prevention and resolution. if there are more women in high positions of political decision-making, but also of economic decision-making, there will certainly be more peace and security in the world and we will all benefit from more development and better living conditions. this is also why we need more women in decision-making at all levels. as has already been said here, women must participate, they must be actors in this whole process which should not be led by men alone.
in writing. − whereas ireland has submitted a request for assistance and mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to respond to a disaster caused by severe flooding in november 2009, whereas furthermore the same floods caused extensive damage to many homes, farms, roads, and water supply networks, and whereas the financial assistance unlocked through the fund will allow the irish authorities to recover part of the costs incurred in responding to the emergency situation, i therefore voted overall in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for ireland following the floods which caused serious damage to the agricultural sector, residential and business buildings, the road network and other infrastructure. although the total losses are below the normal threshold, the request made by ireland meets the criterion of 'regional disaster of an extraordinary nature', which sets out the conditions for mobilising the solidarity fund 'in exceptional circumstances'. the council should unblock the new solidarity fund regulation adopted by the ep.
in writing. - as i have said before, i believe that solidarity between the member states of the european union, and in particular european support for states affected by disasters, is a clear sign that the european union is not just a free trade area. at a time when so many are calling into question the soundness of our common project, the instruments of special aid, such as the european union solidarity fund, demonstrate that we are able to remain united even in the face of adversity, even in situations of particular human and material demand. the floods of november 2009 severely affected ireland and caused severe damage estimated at over eur 520 million. i therefore consider that the mobilisation of the fund to help those who have suffered the most from this natural disaster is fully justified and i welcome the attitude of the chairwoman of the parliamentary committee on regional development in the speed with which she delivered her opinion, thus avoiding unjustified delays in the continuation of the parliamentary procedure.
in writing. − this report makes it possible to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help ireland cope with the disaster triggered by the rains and floods in 2009. the floods caused severe damage to the agricultural sector, residential and business buildings, the road network and other infrastructure. although the total losses are below the normal threshold, the request made by ireland meets the criterion of 'regional disaster of an extraordinary nature', which sets out the conditions for mobilising the solidarity fund 'in exceptional circumstances'.
in writing. the report endorses the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help ireland cope with the disaster caused by the rains and floods in 2009. in recent years, eu member states have been hit by a considerable number of disasters. during the first six years of the eusf's existence, the commission received 62 requests for financial support from 21 different countries. of these, about a third fall into the category of "large-scale disasters". a large proportion of these requests received no support at all. other disasters have not led to calls for the mobilisation of the fund, although their impact on the affected populations, the environment and the economy has been considerable and in many cases lasting. it is necessary to adapt the rules for mobilising this fund, allowing for a more flexible and timely mobilisation, covering a wider range of disasters with significant impacts and reducing the time between disaster and the funds becoming available. but it is also important to say that, first of all, a consistent commitment to disaster prevention is required, by putting into practice the recommendations which this parliament has recently adopted.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is designed to help workers who have had their company relocated and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to ireland, which submitted an application for assistance from the egf following the heavy rains that caused the floods in november 2009. the floods caused severe damage to the agricultural sector, residential and business buildings, the road network and other infrastructure.
in writing. − this proposal for the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund (esf) expresses the need to provide assistance to ireland following the floods of november 2009, which caused enormous damage to the agricultural and business sectors, to infrastructure, in particular roads and water supply, and to residential areas. in this context, and recalling the disaster that struck the island of madeira in february 2010 and the effects of the storm xynthia in europe, i welcome the commission's proposal to provide aid to ireland totalling eur 13 022 500, based on the criterion of 'extraordinary regional disaster'. this criterion is used where it is demonstrated that the damage has affected a large part of the population of the region and that it has a serious and lasting impact on the living conditions and economic stability of the region concerned. however, i would reiterate the need to review the current esf regime in order to make it more rapid and effective in mitigating the indelible consequences of natural disasters.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of nord brabant and zuid holland, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree with the request to the institutions involved in the process to make the necessary efforts to speed up the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement effectively the instruments to support the workers affected and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. in view of the fact that the netherlands has submitted a request for assistance concerning 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the regions of north brabant and south holland, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - 821 redundancies in 70 printing companies in the noord brabant and zuid holland regions of the netherlands demonstrate how the global economic and financial crisis seems to have not spared sectors which at first sight would seem more immune from its effects and which point to the worrying decline in the number of printing and publishing in that country and, consequently, to the contraction of economic activity as a whole. the european commission considered this request concerning printing and reproduction companies to be satisfactory and was overwhelmingly supported in this understanding by the relevant parliamentary committee. i therefore believe that the conditions are right for me to support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in this case. i hope that this temporary support will help to integrate the workers who have been made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the intervention plan in the netherlands is situated, which concerns 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises operating in the regions of nord brabant and zuid holland. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. - six more requests to mobilise the solidarity fund, corresponding to the closure of a further hundred firms in europe. in all, more than 3,000 workers have been thrown out of work. estimates of the number of people who could benefit from the fund at its inception have long since been far exceeded. more than the systematic use of this instrument, what is needed is a clear break with the neoliberal policies which are causing the visible economic and social disaster in the countries of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to deal with the problem. each new request for the fund to be mobilised gives renewed urgency to the measures we have been advocating, namely the effective fight against unemployment, the stimulation of economic activity, the eradication of precariousness and the reduction of working hours without reduction of wages. measures also aimed at combating the relocation of firms. finally, as we have done on other occasions, we cannot but point out the injustice of a regulation which benefits the countries with the best incomes, in particular with higher wages and unemployment benefits.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to countries which have submitted a request for assistance in relation to 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of nord brabant and zuid holland.
in writing. − the application submitted by the netherlands for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of noord brabant and zuid holland fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 140 redundancies in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of drenthe, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that egf assistance does not replace corporate responsibility actions under national law or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of companies or sectors.
in writing. −while i support all the requests for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by the netherlands in relation to the serious wave of redundancies that has hit the two areas of the printing sector - printing and reproduction of recorded media and publishing, i believe that the dutch authorities could provide some more information on the scope of the measures and their precision, so as to allow a better assessment of them. i hope that the sector can recover and that the workers who have been made redundant, particularly the older ones, can rebuild their lives and take their place in the labour market.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the dutch intervention plan, which concerns 140 redundancies in two companies in drenthe, is situated. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands, which submitted a request for assistance in respect of 140 redundancies in two enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the nuts ii region of drenthe.
in writing. − this application is based on article 2 (c) of the egf regulation and is part of a wider set of six applications, all concerning redundancies in eight different nuts ii regions in the netherlands in companies operating in the graphic arts sector, which has been severely affected by the global economic and financial crisis. more specifically, 140 redundancies occurred in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of drenthe, a province facing a particularly difficult situation, both because it has the third highest unemployment rate in the country (7.5%) and because it has a per capita income significantly below the national average. i therefore believe that all the conditions are met for the egf to be mobilised in this case and i hope that assistance to the workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 129 redundancies in nine enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of limburg, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission has proposed, in the context of mobilising the egf, an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused european social fund resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for attention to the fact that the egf was set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers;
in writing. - the printing and reproduction of recorded media has, within the printing sector, been particularly eroded in the netherlands as demonstrated by the various applications for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the region of drenthe, which has the third highest unemployment rate in the country, is not immune to this trend either. it is worth stressing the need for this fund to be mobilised quickly and effectively, without excessive bureaucracy, so as to contribute to improving the training of dismissed workers and allowing them to re-enter the labour market in better conditions than they had when they left.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the intervention plan in the netherlands, which concerns 129 redundancies in nine companies operating in the limburg region, is set. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands, which submitted a request for assistance in respect of 129 redundancies in nine enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the nuts ii region of limburg.
in writing. − this application is based on article 2 (c) of the egf regulation and is part of a wider set of six applications, all concerning redundancies in eight different nuts ii regions in the netherlands in companies operating in the graphic arts sector, which has been severely affected by the global economic and financial crisis. more specifically, 129 redundancies occurred in nine enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of limburg, a province facing a particularly difficult situation, either because it has the second highest unemployment rate in the country (8%) or because it has a per capita income significantly below the national average. i therefore believe that all the conditions are met for the egf to be mobilised in this case and i hope that assistance to the workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 650 redundancies in 45 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of gelderland and overijssel, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree with the european parliament's position that it regrets the commission's serious shortcomings in implementing the competitiveness and innovation programmes, particularly during an economic crisis which significantly increases the need for such support.
in writing. - 650 workers lost their jobs in 45 printing and reproduction enterprises in the printing sector in the regions of gelderland and overijssel in the netherlands, adding to the plight of other workers and enterprises across the country. in the face of all the requests for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, it is important to ascertain how workers will be reoriented and to what extent new jobs and incentives to create one's own job are sustainable or run the same risks as those that have been lost. dutch ingenuity and entrepreneurship have been hallmarks of their society and deserve to be revisited and revived in the troubled times we live in.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the intervention plan in the netherlands is situated, which concerns 650 redundancies in 45 companies operating in the regions of gelderland and overijssel. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. more and more companies are moving to other countries, taking advantage of the low labour costs experienced in several countries, notably china and india, with damaging effects for countries that respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands, which submitted a request for assistance in respect of 650 redundancies in 45 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of gelderland and overijssel.
in writing. − the application submitted by the netherlands for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 650 redundancies in 45 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of gelderland and overijssel meets all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 720 redundancies in 79 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of noord holland and utrecht, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission has proposed, in the context of the mobilisation of the egf, an alternative source of payment appropriations to the unused resources of the european social fund, following the european parliament's frequent calls for attention to the fact that the egf was set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. the crisis in the printing industry in the netherlands has affected several regions of the country, including noord holland and utrecht. in this case, 720 redundancies took place in 79 companies. this is one of the six applications submitted by the netherlands and which has received the support of the european commission and the relevant parliamentary committee. i also support it, hoping that the sector will recover and that the workers made redundant will be able to find new jobs, either in the same area of printing and reproduction of recorded media or in other areas for which they have or may have skills. the support provided can be a step in that direction.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the intervention plan in the netherlands is situated, which concerns 720 redundancies in 79 enterprises operating in the regions of noord holland and utrecht. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − this is one of the reports on one of the six applications from the netherlands for the mobilisation of the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis. there are some specific aspects to these six applications which should be noted, in addition to the delay in the approval of the whole process by the european commission, which is unfortunately already common. the specific aspects relate to the content of these six applications, all concerning redundancies in eight different regions of the netherlands in small enterprises in the graphic sector, namely printing, reproduction of recorded media and publishing activities. in total, eur 2 266 625 of the egf is being mobilised this time for the netherlands.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands, which submitted a request for assistance in respect of 720 redundancies in 79 enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of noord holland and utrecht.
in writing. − the application submitted by the netherlands for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 720 redundancies in 79 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of noord holland and utrecht meets all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 598 redundancies in eight enterprises in division 58 (publishing activities) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of noord holland and zuid holland, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree with the request to the institutions involved in the process to make the necessary efforts to speed up the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. - anyone who follows the numbers and geographical distribution of redundancies in the printing sector in the netherlands, which underlie the various applications for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, will certainly be alarmed to see the number and dispersion of the same by country. in the neighbouring regions of noord holland and zuid holland alone, 598 workers lost their jobs in the printing sector in just nine months. competition with third countries, combined with the financial and economic crisis which is afflicting the whole of the european continent, is a determining factor in what is happening and makes it clear that there is a need to find solutions to the immediate problems of people, their reintegration into the labour market and their medium- and long-term subsistence. the fund has a palliative function and can act as a stimulus, but it is clearly insufficient to solve, on its own, the serious problems affecting so many families.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the intervention plan in the netherlands is situated, which concerns 598 redundancies in eight companies operating in the regions of noord holland and zuid holland. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands, which submitted a request for assistance in respect of 598 redundancies in eight enterprises in division 58 (publishing activities) of nace rev. 2 in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of noord holland and zuid holland.
in writing. − the application submitted by the netherlands for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 598 redundancies in eight enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 58 (publishing activities) in the two contiguous nuts ii regions of noord holland and zuid holland meets all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - whereas the netherlands has submitted a request for assistance concerning 140 redundancies in two enterprises in division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) of nace rev.2 in the region of drenthe; i would like to refer to the arguments put forward in my explanation of vote for the report a7-0318/2010 to justify my vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think that more time should be given to small distilleries in germany to adapt so that they can survive on the free market. i support the european commission's proposal to extend this period for a few more years to complete the process of abolishing the monopoly as well as the aid and allow for its final termination in 2017.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, i regret that the cap after 2013 has to inherit old situations such as this special provision under the single cmo regulation on aid granted under the german alcohol monopoly, but i understand the need for an extension of the deadline for the elimination of the monopoly, taking into account the economic needs of the german rural economy, especially in some of its federal states. the european rules, while they should be predictable and impartial, should also be able to provide the flexibility needed to meet the specific needs of european markets and citizens, in this case the owners of distilleries in germany.
in writing. - i agree with the commission's position since there is no evidence of any infringement of competition in the internal market. the council unanimously supports this proposal, which is important for the german rural economy. the commission proposal is accompanied by a timetable for reducing the quantities of alcohol produced under the monopoly until its total abolition on 1 january 2018. under article 182 (4) of the single wto regulation, and as an exception to the state aid rules, germany may grant state aid under the german alcohol monopoly to products marketed after processing by the monopoly, such as ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the total amount that is allowed to be granted as state aid is limited to eur 110 million per year, which goes mainly to farmers supplying the raw material and to distilleries using it. however, the budget used has been below this amount, having decreased since 2003. in addition, a large number of distilleries have already made efforts to prepare their entry into the free market by setting up cooperatives, investing in more energy-efficient equipment and increasingly marketing their alcohol directly.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, although we do not agree with the commission or the rapporteur on the arguments they put forward to justify the extension of the aid. the prospect of both of these countries is that the few intervention measures which remain will be abolished altogether in the future, with agriculture subject to the 'free market'. they therefore merely consider that 'more time is needed to facilitate the adaptation process and to enable distilleries to survive on the free market'. contrary to the rapporteur's position, we believe that intervention in markets and regulatory instruments should be the rule and not the exception. only in this way will a decent income be guaranteed to farmers, especially small and mediumsized producers, thus guaranteeing the future of small and mediumsized farming, but also the right to produce and the right to food security and food sovereignty of each country. instead of an exception for germany and a specific production, other countries and other productions should be covered.
in writing. - the constant search for a functioning single market is incompatible with the existence of monopolies in any sector. in this particular case of the german alcohol monopoly there are some mitigating factors which allow it to still be a reality. however, as the report says, we must move towards the total abolition of agricultural distilleries from 2013 and of flat-rate distilleries from 2017.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because, in view of the needs of the german rural economy, i believe that it is justified to extend the initial period of validity of the exception provided for in article 182 (4) of the single wto regulation, so as to create all the conditions for small distilleries to prepare themselves adequately for entry into the free market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report authorising the addition of 718 pharmaceutical and chemical products to the existing list of 8619 products benefiting from duty-free importation into the eu with an expected implementation date of 1 january 2011 because i consider it important that the implementation of the exemption starts as early as next year, knowing that the us will make the implementation of the update conditional upon its entry into force on 1 january. i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent report, in which he presents as essential the fourth revision (pharma iv) launched in 2009 to keep pace with the rapidly changing product environment in the pharmaceutical industry. as the lists were drawn up by industry and decided by consensus by the participants, i welcome the agreement reached by all member states who supported the previous revisions and who also supported product coverage in this fourth revision.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of goods and services. the revision of this list of products is required in order to keep pace with the rapidly changing pharmaceutical industry.
in writing. - knowing the importance of trade in pharmaceuticals not only for public health but also for the economy, i welcome the decision to add 718 new substances to the list of products eligible for duty exemption. the agreement is unanimously supported by the pharmaceutical industry because it removes duties on intermediate products which have to be paid, even in intra-company trade, facilitating international trade in these products and benefiting pharmaceutical companies, which may ultimately be reflected in the price of medicines sold to the public.
in writing. − this proposal invited the council and parliament to authorise the addition of 718 pharmaceutical and chemical products to the existing list of 8619 products benefiting from duty-free import into the eu. this is not a controversial issue, there is consensus among those concerned and support from the member states. the lists are drawn up by industry and decided by consensus by the participants. this addition of products is necessary to respond to the rapidly evolving product environment in the pharmaceutical industry. the target implementation date is 1 january 2011. the us has made the implementation of the update conditional upon its entry into force on 1 january. other participants are expected to follow suit, except japan, which announced an expected delay of 6 months in implementation.
in writing. - the trade in pharmaceutical products is an important part of world trade. therefore, the inclusion of 718 more products in the duty-free list is a good measure both from an economic and from a public health point of view. the decision to add these to the 8619 already on the list may also have an impact on the final price of medicines, which is beneficial for everyone.
in writing. - the addition of these 718 new substances to the existing list of 8619 products benefiting from duty-free import into the eu is agreed by the pharmaceutical industry and the other players in this review process and therefore deserves my support.
in writing. - scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and other countries is essential for technological development, with all the benefits that may flow from it, including improvements in the quality of life of the population. that is why i voted in favour of renewing the agreement between the european community and ukraine.
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine was signed in copenhagen on 4 july 2002 and entered into force on 11 february 2003. given the importance of the eu in the areas of science and technology, its capacity in these areas and the important role it can play alongside ukraine, i consider that the renewal of the agreement is in the interest of the union to continue to promote cooperation with ukraine in common priority scientific and technological areas that result in benefits for both parties. i hope that the renewed agreement will continue to prove beneficial to both parties.
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine was signed in copenhagen on 4 july 2002 and entered into force on 11 february 2003 with the aim of encouraging, developing and facilitating cooperation activities in areas of common interest such as research and development in science and technology. i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe that its renewal contributes to strengthening the creation of the european common research area while acting as a catalyst for the strategic partnership between the eu and ukraine, and i hope that its renewal will bear fruit for both sides.
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine, in force since february 2003, has been a success and has played an important role for both parties. the renewal of the building thus confirms this success and we hope that it will continue in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the renewal of the eu-ukraine agreement on scientific and technological cooperation will enable the parties to achieve significant progress and common benefits.
in writing. - scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and other countries is essential for technological development, with all the benefits that may flow from it, including improvements in the quality of life of the population. i therefore voted in favour of renewing the agreement between the european community and the faroe islands.
in writing. − the eu and the faroe islands have concluded their negotiations for a scientific and technological cooperation agreement, which was initialled on 13 july 2009. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocity of access opportunities to programmes and activities relevant for the purposes of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and equitable sharing of intellectual property rights. this c&t association agreement will contribute to structuring and enhancing scientific and technological cooperation between the ec and the faroe islands through the regular meetings of its joint committee, at which specific cooperation activities may be planned. i hope that the agreement now approved will prove to be beneficial to both parties.
in writing. − the eu and the faroe islands have concluded their negotiations with a view to establishing a scientific and technological cooperation agreement to facilitate the free movement and residence of researchers involved in the activities covered by this agreement and to facilitate the cross-border movement of goods for use in such activities. i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe that its renewal contributes to strengthening the creation of the european research area and i hope that the renewal of the agreement will bear fruit for both parties.
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the faroe islands, in force since july 2009, has been a success and has played an important role for both parties. the renewal of the building thus confirms this success and we hope that it will continue in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the faroe islands because i am convinced that concerted efforts in these strategic areas can be beneficial for both parties.
in writing. - scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and other countries is essential for technological development, with all the benefits that may flow from it, including improvements in the quality of life of the population. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement in this field between the european community and the government of japan.
in writing. − given the importance of science and technology for the development of europe and japan, and the fact that both face similar challenges in terms of economic growth, industrial competitiveness, employment, sustainable development and climate change, both the eu and japan have expressed a willingness to improve and intensify their cooperation in areas of common interest, such as science and technology. in 2003, negotiations were launched for a future agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which resulted in the draft text of the agreement we are now voting on. we must not forget that this partnership can be very beneficial for europe, as japan is one of the leading countries in terms of investment in research (which reached 3.61% of gdp in 2008 with more than 81.6% coming from the private sector). i hope that the agreement now approved will prove to be beneficial to both parties.
in writing. − the eu and japan face common challenges in economic growth, industrial competitiveness, employment, social and regional cohesion, sustainable development and, perhaps most importantly, the need to adapt their economies to ageing societies and the current financial crisis. they also have similar research priorities, such as life sciences and communication, and this agreement will serve to deepen cooperation in areas of common interest, such as life sciences, information and communication technologies, and environmental technologies linked to climate change and renewable energy. i voted in favour of this agreement because i consider that its approval contributes to strengthening the creation of the european common research area while acting as a catalyst for the strategic partnership between the eu and japan, which is already one of the leading countries in terms of research investment (reaching 3.61% of gdp in 2008, with over 81.6% coming from the private sector).
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and japan has been under negotiation since 2003 and has only just been signed. the agreement now signed is of great importance to both parties, given the importance of japan in terms of scientific and technological research.
in writing. − europe and japan face common challenges in economic growth and sustainable development and therefore welcome the conclusion of this agreement, which will allow for deeper cooperation in the field of scientific and technological activities, with significant benefits for both parties.
in writing. - scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and other countries is essential for technological development, with all the benefits that may flow from it, including improvements in the quality of life of the population. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement in this field between the european community and the hashemite kingdom of jordan.
in writing. the eu has been developing a close partnership with jordan, a country that aims to act as a force for moderation and reform in a region of political turmoil. it has been the eu's objective to support jordan in this endeavour, through a relationship that emphasises close cooperation on democratic reform and economic modernisation. as president of the maxereque delegation, i am pleased to vote in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen cooperation in the fields of science and technology between the european union and jordan.
in writing. - the eu and jordan have been negotiating a scientific and technological cooperation agreement since 2008, which now needs to be approved. the partnership with jordan is of great interest in the context of euro-mediterranean relations, since jordan, in addition to its many potentials, has the capacity to function as a platform for scientific cooperation with the other countries in the region. in addition, jordan has a well-developed network of universities and higher education institutions and equipped research and technological application centres in areas of great relevance to europe, such as agriculture and agronomy. it is also well integrated into international and regional scientific networks. i hope that the agreement now approved will prove to be beneficial to both parties.
in writing. − scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and jordan is one of the priorities of the euro-mediterranean association agreement, in force since 2002. i voted in favour of this agreement because i consider that its renewal contributes to strengthening the creation of the european common research area while acting as a catalyst for the strategic partnership between the eu and jordan which, given its strategic position in the middle east, could have impacts on the promotion of scientific cooperation with the countries of the region.
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the hashemite kingdom of jordan has been under negotiation since 2008 and has only just been signed. this agreement is important in view of the possibilities for exchanges between europe and this middle eastern kingdom. the great development of higher education in jordan should also be noted, which could contribute greatly to the success of this cooperation.
in writing. − cooperation in scientific and technological research between the eu and jordan is identified as a priority in the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, in force since 2002. i therefore welcome the conclusion of this eu-jordan agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which is another step in strengthening this partnership, and i hope that the concerted efforts in these strategic areas will be beneficial for both parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it goes along with the resolution adopted on 25 february by the european parliament and the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy as regards the need for regional cooperation and sustainability outside european union waters. this resolution repeals the fisheries partnership agreement signed on 9 october 2006 for a period of three years and allows the continuation of fishing activities by community vessels, which is of particular interest to the european union, as it contributes to the viability of its tuna sector in the pacific ocean, while also allowing a sharp reduction in the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic, in accordance with the conservation and management measures adopted by the iattc (inter-american tropical tuna commission). it should also be noted that this agreement will provide a guaranteed income for the solomon islands, the amount of which will be used to support the implementation of its national fisheries policy, contributing to the principle of sustainability and good management of fisheries resources.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty gives the european parliament increased powers in fisheries partnership agreements, requiring parliament's prior approval. in this context, i voted in favour of the report on the 'fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the solomon islands', as i consider that it is in line with the aim of promoting responsible and sustainable fishing, serving the legitimate interests of both parties.
in writing. − the eu currently has 16 fisheries partnership agreements ('fpas') in force. through these, the community fleet has access to fishery resources that, for whatever reason, the partners cannot or do not wish to fish. at the moment, the intention is to renew the agreement with the solomon islands for another 3 years. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms. this is particularly relevant when we note that under the previous version of the agreement portugal was fishing in the solomon islands eez with 4 surface longliners, which is no longer possible at this stage as no fishing opportunities for longliners have been negotiated, although a clause is included allowing the introduction of new fishing opportunities if necessary.
in writing. − the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy introduced the concept of partnership with the aim of supporting the development of the national fisheries sector in the partner countries. from 2004 onwards, the agreements will be referred to as 'fisheries partnership agreements'. the treaty of lisbon gave the european parliament increased powers in the field of fisheries partnership agreements. article 218 (6) (a) of the treaty now requires parliament's prior consent for the conclusion of the agreement. in february 2004, the solomon islands and the european community signed a fisheries partnership agreement for a period of three years, which entered into force on 9 october 2006. i agree that this agreement should be repealed and replaced by a new version which is part of a set of three agreements in the western and central pacific region, including the partnership agreement with kiribati and the federated states of micronesia. in the agreements with african and pacific countries, part of the eu financial contribution is intended to support national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability.
in writing. − the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries ensures that eu fleets have access to relevant fisheries resources, both in quantitative and qualitative terms, while ensuring that financial resources are channelled to third countries, which often play a major role in the overall budgetary resources available for the pursuit of various sectoral policies, not just fisheries policy. that is also the case with this agreement. the vote in favour of the report does not remove the serious reservations we have about the way in which this agreement has been implemented to date, some of which have been expressed by the rapporteur. we refer, among other things, to the fact that the joint committee never met during the period of the agreement, that the terms for implementing responsible fishing practices in the solomon islands eez were not defined, and the lack of clarity on the control of the catches made. these failures seriously jeopardise the achievement of the objectives of the agreement and cannot be repeated in the new period of validity. the commission has undertaken to do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen again. it is now necessary that you fulfill that commitment.
in writing. − the eu has several fisheries partnership agreements which give it access to various fishing zones in exchange for resources that are channelled into the economies of the countries with which the partnerships are signed. this is a way for the eu to help developing countries and at the same time provide quality fishing grounds for eu fishermen to develop their economic activity which is essential for the eu economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this fisheries partnership agreement, as i consider that it serves the interests of both parties in the main, allowing the eu to access 4,000 tonnes of tuna per year, a significant amount for the community industry and market, and providing the solomon islands with significant financial resources, partly to support the implementation of its fisheries sector policy. i believe, however, that everything must be done to avoid the problems just identified in the report.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur's concern that the commission should examine not only the specific question of the standard rate and other vat rates, but also the broader question of a new vat strategy, including its scope and derogations. due to the increasing complexity of rates, the vat system is not keeping pace with the evolution of the internal market, which puts companies and especially smes at a disadvantage. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. i welcome the commission's intention to launch a green paper on the revision of the vat system with the aim of creating a more business-friendly environment and a simpler and more robust system for the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the european commission proposal and the amendments to it introduced by parliament. i agree with the european commission's proposal for the extension for five years of the current requirement for eu member states to have a minimum standard vat rate of 15%, based on article 113 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as regards the amendments tabled by parliament, i think it is particularly relevant that the new vat strategy should aim to reduce the administrative burden, remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises and labour-intensive enterprises, while ensuring the robustness of the system against fraud.
in writing. the renewal of the extension of the minimum value of the standard vat rate to 15% in the member states proposed by the commission is based on legal certainty. i have no objection to this principle, which is why i voted in favour of the proposal. however, i cannot fail to stress the urgency of taking comprehensive measures in relation to this tax. these must be geared to the fiscal competitiveness of the european union and to the necessary protection of smes. it is becoming increasingly clear that fiscal policies are not neutral. the success story of vat cannot and must not be an obstacle to its adaptation to the new times.
in writing. - in this proposal, which is based on article 113 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the commission proposes to extend for five years the current requirement for member states to have a minimum standard vat rate of 15%, with no consequence as regards tax rates. the commission proposes that the extension should start on 1 january 2011 and run until 31 december 2010. the purpose of the extension is not only to provide businesses with the necessary legal certainty but also to allow a better assessment of the appropriate level of the standard rate of vat at european union level. the current vat system, with its increasing complexity, not only in terms of rates, is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market and puts european companies, particularly smes, at a disadvantage. furthermore, as the european parliament has pointed out, the vat system, as currently designed and implemented by the member states, has weaknesses that fraudsters exploit and which cost billions of euros in lost tax revenues.
in writing. the report takes account of the proposal for a council directive amending directive 112/2006 on the minimum standard rate of vat of 15% by extending the current deadline, which expired at the end of this year, for a further five years, as no agreement was reached on the definitive standardisation of vat rates. the rapporteur took the opportunity to make some suggestions to the council, notably on the new vat strategy, which he said should aim to remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises and labour-intensive businesses, while ensuring the robustness of the system against fraud. it also stressed that the council should move forward with a definitive system by 31 december 2015 and that the commission should present legislative proposals by 2013 to replace the current transitional level. this is a subject which we will be following very closely, given the possible negative implications of the proposal which may emerge in 2013.
in writing. - we must not forget that the current vat system, with its increasing complexity, not only in terms of rates, is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market. this puts european companies, particularly smes, at a disadvantage. moreover, as the european parliament has pointed out in the past, the vat system, as currently designed and implemented by the member states, has weaknesses that fraudsters exploit and which cost billions of euros in lost tax revenues. the new vat strategy should therefore focus on reforming the vat rules in order to actively promote the objectives of the internal market. the new vat strategy should aim to reduce the administrative burden, remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises and labour-intensive enterprises, while ensuring the robustness of the system against fraud.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report. however, i cannot help but note that the successive postponements of definitive vat regulation are symptomatic of the impasse in which the construction of the european union has fallen. even if the commission were to submit a proposal for a revision of the vat system in the near future, we are all aware that the disparity of interests between the various member states, as expressed in the council, will ultimately prevent a proposal for a reduction in the variability of rates. it is worth remembering that, although it is a regressive tax, vat has been the fiscal instrument of emergency in the service of the austerity policies imposed by the council and the commission. the pressure for so-called 'fiscal consolidation' in the member states is now a powerful obstacle to convergence of vat rates. if we remember that the hypothesis of a european 'vat' suggested by the commission as a budget revenue of the union was immediately rejected by several member states, then we have to admit that asking the commission for a 'new strategy on vat' does not seem to make much sense.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the commission's proposal to extend for five years the current requirement for member states to have a minimum standard vat rate of 15%. as regards the vat system, it should be recognized, in line with the rapporteur's assertions, that it must be subject to a comprehensive reform in order to actively promote the objectives of the internal market, contributing to the creation of a more favourable environment for enterprises, especially smes. i therefore fully welcome the commission's announced intention to launch a green paper on the revision of the vat system.
in writing. − in its proposal, the european commission provides for a five-year extension of the current requirement for eu member states to have a minimum standard vat rate of 15% until 15 december 2015. the idea is to keep the harmonized tax structure with two mandatory rates for vat and harmonization within a range of variation of 10%, i.e. 15% to 25%. the member states undertake not to increase this differential beyond the minimum rate they currently apply. i agree with the rapporteur that the current vat system, with its increasing complexity, is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market. i therefore hope that the european commission will in future examine not only this question of the standard rate of vat but also the general theme of the revision of the current system, including its scope and derogations, and will endeavour to draw up a new strategy in the context of this tax. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report because i believe that measures to keep inflation close to 2% while increasing liquidity in the market have prevented the collapse of many financial institutions, although i acknowledge that the relaunch of the ecb's measures has not been fully realised because liquidity from the ecb has not always flowed into the real economy. it should be remembered that the crisis was initially a financial crisis and then turned into an economic crisis. the ems, through their governments, and the ecb had to react to the most austere crisis since the 1930s. we are witnessing a contraction in gdp, a slowdown in economic activity and an increase in budget deficits, which have led to a reduction in tax revenues and generated an unsustainable public debt, making it difficult to reach levels comparable to those existing before the crisis. this is due to the lack of internal structural reforms within the eu, as is so clearly evident in events in greece and other euro area countries. i therefore believe it is important to tackle the fragility of the financial system at global level and to remove all the links to the crisis by improving the quality of risk management and the transparency of financial markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's resolution because i agree that the financial crisis in some eurozone countries is a serious problem and reveals a certain dysfunction in the eurozone and because i think that this shows the need for reform and for stronger coordination between the various economic policies. i also agree with the call for the unrestricted and more coherent application of the stability and growth pact and consider that the pact should be complemented by the development of an early warning system to detect possible inconsistencies, for example in the form of a 'european semester', not only to strengthen the surveillance and coordination of economic policy, in order to ensure fiscal consolidation, but also to address other macroeconomic imbalances and strengthen the implementation processes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the stability and growth pact to include specific objectives to cover the differences in the competitiveness of european economies in order to encourage job-creating growth.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of a public authority. proposals to strengthen the stability and growth pact should take account of the differences in the competitiveness of european economies in order to encourage growth with a particular focus on job creation.
in writing. - the crisis we are experiencing is an opportunity to review and improve what has gone wrong. strengthening the stability and growth pact and monitoring its implementation are essential to avoid future imbalances within the euro area. the creation of a european systemic risk board (esrb) and the replacement of the supervisory committees by three new supervisory authorities are salutary steps towards better economic supervision. i agree with the rapporteur when he refers to the need for prudence in relation to financial market regulation initiatives. it goes in the direction we have been advocating, better regulation does not necessarily mean more regulation.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty gave the ecb the status of an eu institution, which increases the ep's responsibility as the indispensable institution through which the ecb is accountable to european citizens. the ecb's annual report 2009 focuses on the ecb's response to the crisis, the exit strategy and governance issues. the financial crisis which began about two years ago with the mortgage crisis in the us has quickly spread to the eu and has also become an economic crisis affecting the real economy. real gdp in the euro area contracted by 4,1% in 2009, the overall average government deficit ratio increased by around 6,3% and the government debt/gdp ratio increased from 69,4% in 2008 to 78,7% in 2009. the ecb was right to adjust the interest rates downwards to 1%, and to continue with the implementation of important and unprecedented unconventional credit support measures. this has prevented the collapse of many financial institutions. however, liquidity did not always flow into the real economy. the crisis has made clear the need for greater transparency and better risk management in financial markets, sound public finances and the urgency of restoring credibility.
in writing. - the serious economic crisis affecting the whole world has been felt most acutely within the eu. the ecb's response to the crisis was effective, although it sometimes failed to act with sufficient speed or assertiveness, particularly in the case of the policy of reducing interest rates, which was more radical and effective in the united kingdom and the federal reserve. it is necessary to learn from mistakes so that in the future the same ones do not happen again. the financial crisis in some euro area countries is thus a serious problem for the euro area as a whole and reflects a certain dysfunction of the euro area. this shows the need for reform and stronger coordination between economic policies in the euro area. this is a task which must be undertaken by all the member states of the euro area if the euro is to consolidate itself definitively and be able to emerge quickly from the pressure it is currently under.
in writing. - i vote against this report. it ignores, or at least underestimates, the recessionary effect of a policy of reducing public spending pursued simultaneously by most of the countries of the union, just when it was emerging from the great recession that began in 2008. accepting this report means voting in favour of abandoning the policy of concerted stimulus that was put in place in 2009. the dominant neoliberal ideology at the ecb, which makes inflation a lurking threat even when there is a large unused productive capacity, is making the eurozone hostage to financial markets. this ideology has returned to remind us that austerity is not enough, that nominal wage cuts and further deregulation of the labour market are needed. as the contraction in aggregate demand will undermine the budgetary execution of greece and ireland in 2011, the ecb will still tell us that the austerity policy was right, that its extent and intensity were insufficient. this report is a veritable intellectual fraud.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis has made clear the need for reforms in the eu that can lead to a strengthening of the supervision and coordination of economic policies in the euro area and to the restoration of confidence in european public finances. important steps are being taken in this direction, including the creation of a european risk committee, which will fill the current gap in the macro-prudential oversight of the financial system in the eu, but it is essential to move forward with proposals to strengthen the stability and growth pact in order to ensure fiscal consolidation, but also to address other macroeconomic imbalances and strengthen the enforcement processes. this report, which i voted in favour of, also draws attention to the fact that the austerity packages adopted by the governments of the member states must not compromise their ability to promote economic recovery, and that it is important to strike a balance between the process of consolidating public accounts and meeting the needs for investment in employment and sustainable development, by using measures and instruments which can give meaning but also a horizon to the sacrifices imposed on citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that responses to current crises and security threats, including natural disasters, must draw on both civilian and military capabilities and require closer cooperation between them.
in writing. − we live in a world where, while conventional attacks on the eu or any of its member states are becoming less likely, threats are becoming more widespread and global, whether it be international terrorism, cyberattacks on vital computer systems, the use of long-range missiles against european targets or piracy in international waters. it is therefore essential that the eu, as an organisation committed to peace-keeping, conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction and the strengthening of international security, has the capacity to be a global player in this context, capable of ensuring the security of its citizens within its territory. that is why i believe that the eu's committed cooperation in the united nations and, on the euro-atlantic axis, with nato, which this weekend adopted its new strategic concept which aims to strengthen the alliance's capacity to deal with unconventional threats and to strengthen ties with the european union, which means 'strengthening practical cooperation in operations across the whole range of crises, from coordinated planning to mutual support on the ground'.
in writing. − in accordance with the principles of the united nations charter, the eu has committed itself to defining and implementing common policies and actions to preserve peace, prevent conflict, consolidate post-conflict reconstruction and strengthen international security. through its civilian crisis management, the eu is already making a clear contribution to global security, reflecting its core values and principles. the establishment of the european external action service (eeas) should further contribute to the development of a truly comprehensive european approach to civil and military crisis management, conflict prevention and peacebuilding and equip the eu with the structures, manpower levels and financial resources to meet its global responsibilities. i would stress the need to speed up the financing of civilian missions and to simplify decision-making processes and the procedures for implementation. this requires the council to take swiftly the appropriate decisions to set up the launching fund provided for in article 41 teu, after consulting the european parliament.
in writing. - this report reflects the deepening crisis of capitalism and the policy of cannoli with which the eu wants to respond, in partnership with nato and the usa. the interpreters of the interests of big business in the eu (most meps) are already trying to hide the eu's historical and current responsibilities for the problems of security in the world. the resolution therefore maintains the thesis of preventive wars with the fallacious argument that the 'security' of the citizens of the eu countries is guaranteed by a policy of interference (which will be accentuated by the creation of the external action service), violating the sovereignty of countries and peoples and waging war where and when the interests of the eu's economic groups may be at stake. the reality there is making it increasingly clear that the eu is now part of the threat to the people. at a time when important rights of workers and peoples are being taken away and draconian measures are being imposed on them, under the pretext of a lack of resources, the channelling of funds to purchase arms and to strengthen the war industry must be denounced.
in writing. − there is a need to respond effectively to current crises and security threats, including natural disasters. this often means having to rely on both civilian and military capabilities and requires closer cooperation between the two. the development of the eu's comprehensive approach and its combined military and civilian crisis management capabilities has been a distinctive feature of the csdp and represents its main added value. the establishment of the european external action service (eeas) will further contribute to the development of a truly comprehensive european approach to civil and military crisis management, conflict prevention and peacebuilding and will provide the eu with the appropriate structures, manpower levels and financial resources to meet its global responsibilities in line with the charter of the united nations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that in order for the eu to meet its responsibilities in peacekeeping, conflict prevention, strengthening international security and disaster relief, it is essential that it promotes better coordination of civilian and military resources and ensures that it has the resources to strengthen its global crisis management capabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a long-term plan for the stock of cod in the bay of biscay and the fisheries exploiting that stock, because it should contribute to maintaining biomass stocks at levels which allow their sustainable exploitation, based on scientific advice.
in writing. − given the importance of the cod fishery in the bay of biscay, the damage caused by the closure of the fishery to the groups that depend on it (fishermen, nets, the canning industry, etc.) and the fact that the loss of revenue has not been covered by the compensatory aid granted by the member states, it is essential to define a long-term plan to recover the cod stock so that these resources can be used again by fishermen, without endangering the preservation of this species so important for the european fishing and canning industries. as regards the 10% reduction in fishing quotas and the calculation formulas for exploitation, i believe that such measures are excessive, forgetting the economic and social impact they may have on the industries and populations involved.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to establish a long-term plan for the stock of hake in the bay of biscay and the fisheries exploiting that stock. the fishing for the cod in the bay of biscay has been closed since 2005 due to the poor state of the same stock. in order to raise the stock of hake in the bay of biscay to a level that allows its sustainable exploitation, it is necessary to provide for long-term management measures to ensure that the exploitation of that stock is compatible with sustainable exploitation, ensuring, as far as possible, the stability of the fishery while maintaining a low risk of discontinuation. i welcome the adoption in this report of a long-term management plan rather than annual ad hoc measures to define fishing opportunities in order to ensure the stability of the fisheries sector and to strengthen control and enforcement. i agree with the support for the regional administrations responsible for control, inspection and surveillance, since they are closer to reality and with the need to draw up and publish a report before the start of the fishing season.
in writing. − the worrying state of conservation of the stock of cod in the bay of biscay led to the closure of the fisheries in 2005. as a result of this closure - with inevitably disastrous economic and social consequences, which, in this and other cases, must be prevented and remedied as much as possible - the source of the biqueirão has been recovering, making it possible to restart its exploitation. we believe that decisions on closing fisheries, on reopening them and on the definition of the conditions for exploiting resources must always be based, first and foremost, on scientific knowledge and advice on the state of resources. it is therefore essential that this knowledge is as accurate and up-to-date as possible and that the funding needs for this purpose should be ensured, in particular through the financial instruments of the common fisheries policy. long-term plans are an important instrument for fisheries management, combining the essential conservation of fisheries resources at sustainable levels with the guarantee of medium-term prospects for exploiting those resources, which is essential to give economic and social stability to fishing and the local communities that depend on it.
in writing. − the suspension of the cod fishery in the bay of biscay, which has been in place since 2005, has caused great difficulties for the operators who make their living from this economic activity. five years after that suspension, the stock of this species in the bay of biscay has now recovered to acceptable levels and it is now possible to resume its capture, but on the basis of a long-term plan to keep the stock of the bivalve mollusk always above the risk of extinction so that this activity can once again increase this economic sector in that area.
in writing. − the cod fishery in the bay of biscay is of great socioeconomic interest and its closure in 2005 has caused serious damage to the groups that depend on it (fishermen, nets, canning industry, etc.). i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the establishment of a long-term plan will make it possible to respond to the need to rationalise the exploitation of this resource, ensuring the long-term sustainability of the fishery and at the same time mitigating the risk of the stock of the cod being broken up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider the measures presented by the commission to be necessary in relation to the control and surveillance of the catch zones of the species. this resolution is an attempt to fill the gap in information on the stock of carp by establishing a formula for vessels involved in carp fishing, taking into account an annual limit of permitted landings and harvesting in defined areas. the main parties in the sector affected by this plan are the owners, operators and crew of pelagic fishing vessels operating in the western carp distribution area, i.e. the north sea, the areas west of the british isles, the western channel, the waters west of brittany, the bay of biscay and the north and north-west of spain, with the main objective of ensuring the exploitation of living aquatic resources under economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions. it should also be noted that portugal has been able to safeguard its fishing interests by benefiting from its historical fishing rights in the areas referred to. i would stress the positive solution for small-scale coastal fishing, which is perfectly compatible with the conservation of resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a 'long-term plan for the western stock of carp and the fisheries exploiting that stock' because it helps to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in economic, environmental and social terms. this proposal, which is of interest to portugal, also takes account of the specific nature and objectives of the fleets involved, particularly the artisanal fleet, with a view to the public supply of high-quality fresh fish.
in writing. - defending fisheries and the economic and social interests (beyond food) involved is not the same as defending fishing without rules and limits. we know that fisheries resources are finite and that intensive fishing means that the stocks caught do not have time to reproduce in sufficient numbers. it is therefore important that plans for the maintenance and conservation of fish stocks are drawn up, seeking to reconcile the economic and social interests at stake with the preservation of species, which is essential for the long-term maintenance of fishing opportunities. with the amendments introduced and approved, this report defends the traditional carp fishing and, in particular, allows some 30 portuguese vessels to continue fishing in the cantabrian sea area, which is fundamental from the point of view of the national interest, as pointed out by maria do céu patrão neves, the epp shadow rapporteur for this report.
in writing. − this proposal is an attempt to fill the gap in information on the stock of carp by establishing a formula for vessels involved in carp fishing, taking into account an annual limit of permitted landings of carp harvested in defined areas. this formula is based on the most reliable scientific and biological indicators currently available for the development of the population unit. i welcome the introduction of respect for the activity of the artisanal fleets which have traditionally specialised in this type of fishing for their own consumption of fresh fish, so that no areas should be established too far from the coast. i would stress the important role of the european parliament in repealing and amending the commission's delegated acts in this area.
in writing. - multiannual plans are important instruments for fisheries management, allowing the combination of the essential conservation of fisheries resources at sustainable levels and the guarantee of medium-term prospects for exploiting these resources, which is essential to give economic and social stability to fishing and the local communities that depend on it. we therefore welcome the adoption of this report and the adoption of the amendment tabled by our group concerning the zonal distribution of the total allowable catches (tacs), which we consider to be a crucial point for an economically and socially fair approach to the management of spring waters. when it comes to setting limits on fishing effort, coastal and artisanal fisheries, aimed at the public supply of fish to the population for fresh consumption, should not be treated in the same way as industrial fisheries, which are aimed at industrial processing and export. the specific characteristics of fleets and the destination of fisheries are thus recognized as aspects to be taken into account in the definition of tacs, in the name of a management of fisheries resources which takes account of biological and environmental aspects, but also of economic and social aspects.
in writing. − the establishment of a long-term plan for the western stock of carp and the fisheries exploiting this stock is essential for the efficient and correct use of fishery resources. in this way, and in accordance with the rules, fish stocks are not depleted and sustainable exploitation of these resources is possible. the report also emphasizes the fact that portugal can maintain its previous catch levels, which is essential to maintain a healthy fishing industry, which has suffered many setbacks in recent times.
in writing. − multiannual plans are a key instrument to ensure that exploitation of fisheries resources is environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. i therefore supported this report on the proposal for a multiannual management plan for the western stock of carp, and i welcome the fact that the amendment tabled by mrs patrão neves has been adopted, which is essential to ensure the protection of small-scale fisheries and the interests of portugal involved here.
in writing. - in economic terms, the most important carp stock in community waters is the western carp. the european commission's proposal sets out a long-term plan for this stock and the fisheries exploiting it. it is desirable to ensure that living aquatic resources are exploited in an economically, environmentally and socially sustainable manner. this proposal may even serve as a model for future multiannual plans on the regulation of fishing opportunities in european union waters. i support the amendments tabled in the committee on fisheries to make the determination of the biological reference factors and the method of calculating total removal more flexible by setting maximum and minimum limits and by coordinating more closely with the legislation establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. i therefore vote in favour of this document.
in writing. - for the european union, and especially for a country like portugal, with a maritime and fishing vocation and a strong fishery and canning industry, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity. portugal needs fisheries and as such it needs the sea to maintain its capacity to give us fish and for species to maintain their reproductive capacity intact. i therefore agree with the rapporteur when he says that 'in order to effectively prevent by-catches and limit the discarding of excessive amounts of juvenile and undersized fish belonging to targeted and non-targeted species, it is absolutely essential that the fishing industry be encouraged to use the most selective fishing gear and not to fish in areas where there are large quantities of undersized fish and non-targeted species'.
in writing. − in order to avoid overfishing and limit the return of excessive amounts of juvenile and undersized fish, it is absolutely essential that the fishing industry is encouraged to use the most selective fishing gear and not to fish in areas where there are large amounts of undersized fish and non-target species. i do not think it is appropriate to impose a total ban on discards for sole and other members of its family, as this will have a negative impact on sole stocks. this ban may also have the perverse effect of being used as an argument to legalise large-scale fishing for undersized cod in the baltic. it should be noted that the baltic sea has been classified as a particularly sensitive maritime zone by the marine environment protection committee of the international maritime organization.
in writing. − fisheries must be a sustainable economic activity in the long term, and this can only be achieved through the prudent management of fisheries resources. the concerns raised by the rapporteur are therefore legitimate and take account of the need to protect species and preserve biodiversity. i hereby agree to the prohibitions and restrictions hereby approved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to promote sustainable management of marine resources in line with the objectives of preserving the baltic stocks, which are among the most valuable and sensitive ecosystems in the world.
in writing. - i agree with the amendment proposals in general, considering that the introduction of exotic species is one of the main problems of disruption of ecosystems, and is, along with the destruction of habitats, one of the main causes of biodiversity loss worldwide, as recognised by the commission. i therefore support the proposals for the definition of compensatory measures for the introduction of exotic species, in the sense of a strict definition of the requirements to be met by closed aquaculture installations and the need to monitor the installations in order to ensure that the technical requirements proposed by the experts are met. aquaculture, especially at a time when a new european strategy in this area is being launched, needs strong support in scientific research and technological development in the area of native species farming, which allows for greater diversification. in these amendments i agree with the idea of ensuring the involvement of the european parliament in this area, so that the previous comitology provisions are brought into line with the tfeu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'use of exotic and locally absent species in aquaculture', as it will make it possible to strengthen the requirements to which closed aquaculture facilities and the transport of species should be subject in order to minimise the impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity.
in writing. − the european aquaculture sector comprises more than 16 500 companies, with an overall annual turnover of over eur 3.5 billion and directly and indirectly employing some 64 000 people. moreover, when fisheries resources are becoming scarce, aquaculture offers a wealth of opportunities for european industries. the facilitation of the introduction of exotic and locally absent species into aquaculture, which is now being proposed, should be matched by a strict definition of the requirements to be met by closed aquaculture installations, as well as the necessary monitoring of these installations, in order to ensure that all the technical requirements proposed by experts are effectively taken into account and respected.
in writing. − the amendment proposed by the commission to this regulation is based on the results of the impasse project - a concerted action on the environmental impacts of exotic species in aquaculture. this project proposes a more detailed and demanding operational definition of a closed aquaculture facility than the current one, according to which the degree of risk associated with exotic species can be greatly reduced, even to an acceptable level, if the possibilities of escape of target and non-target organisms during transport are eliminated and if clear protocols are defined in the receiving facilities. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to exempt introductions and transfers in closed aquaculture facilities from the requirement of a licence, thus relieving operators of this administrative formality.
in writing. - as regards the substance of the report, as we said in the debate, the facilitation of the process of introducing exotic species into aquaculture in closed facilities should be matched by a strict definition of the requirements to be met by these facilities (in accordance with up-to-date technical and scientific information). monitoring of installations before and during their operation should also be ensured. the sustainable development of aquaculture requires strong support for scientific research and technological development in the area of native species farming. these species should be given preference over exotic species, thus allowing for diversification of food production and supply and an increase in food quality, while also ensuring greater environmental safety. as regards the reporting procedure, i welcome the fact that the commission has incorporated the proposals adopted by the committee on fisheries into its proposal for a regulation, but i regret that it considered it essential to submit a new formal proposal, which led to a delay in the formalisation of the agreement at first reading.
in writing. − the introduction of exotic species is one of the main causes of biodiversity loss and disruption of ecosystems on the planet. the introduction of exotic species into aquaculture should therefore lead to a strict definition of the requirements to be met by closed aquaculture facilities and their supervision. the transport of target and non-target species should also be subject to strict rules and supervision. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report. i believe, however, that research and development in the cultivation of indigenous species should be strengthened, so as to reduce the risks associated with the introduction of exotic species and promote more sustainable production.
in writing. − the introduction of exotic species is one of the main elements of ecosystem disturbance, along with the destruction of natural habitats, and is one of the main causes of biodiversity loss worldwide. facilitating the introduction of exotic species into aquaculture should be matched by a strict definition of the rules to be followed by closed aquaculture facilities (according to the results of the impasse project) and by monitoring of the facilities to ensure that all technical requirements proposed by experts are effectively taken into account and respected. the sustainable development of european aquaculture requires strong support for scientific research and technological development in the area of native species farming, which allows for diversification of production and food supply and an increase in its quality, while also ensuring greater environmental safety.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, as the results of the impasse project have shown, 'the degree of risk associated with exotic species can be greatly reduced, even to an acceptable level, if the escape possibilities of target and non-target organisms during transport are eliminated and clear protocols are defined in the receiving facilities', it makes perfect sense to exempt the introduction of exotic species into closed aquaculture facilities from the requirement of a licence. the reduction of the administrative burden and costs of licence applications is an important incentive for the aquaculture sector and this exemption, provided that it is accompanied by a strict definition of the requirements to be met by closed aquaculture facilities and adequate monitoring of their compliance, does not compromise the indispensable protection of biodiversity and the environment.
in writing. − aquaculture of exotic and locally absent species has counter-effects on natural ecosystems, in particular the loss of biodiversity worldwide, which deserve to be safeguarded by the european union. the impasse project, a concerted action on the environmental impacts of exotic species in aquaculture, has demonstrated the need to prevent the escape of these species and biological material during transport. i welcome the european parliament's report for its emphasis on biosecurity and at the same time for its streamlining of the administrative procedures for permitting introduction and translocation into closed aquaculture installations. the clear and rigorous definition of closed aquaculture facility and a regularly updated list of all facilities by member state will produce a sustainable development of this sector. member states should carry out surveillance of the facilities themselves and of the means of transport of the species. i also support the emphasis on scientific research and technological development as a means of reducing the harmful effects of this sector on natural ecosystems. finally, i would stress the amendment of this regulation under the ordinary legislative procedure of codecision, provided for by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − in the absence of specific regulation on the granting of state aid to the coal industry, since the applicable regulation expires on 31 december 2010, it is necessary to lay down rules enabling some member states, forced to close their coal mines, to mitigate the social and economic impacts of such closure. due to the regional concentration of coal mines (germany, spain and romania), the social impact of the simultaneous closure of the mines could be significant. in terms of employment, some 100,000 jobs may be at stake for miners who may not find employment in other sectors as quickly as they should and who are at risk of becoming longterm unemployed. the proposal therefore aims to provide member states with a regulatory framework to enable them to deal more effectively with the possible negative effects of the closure of mines, which may occur as a result of the phasing out of subsidies, in particular their social and environmental effects, while minimising distortions of competition in the internal market.
in writing. − aid to the european coal industry is regulated by regulation (ec) no 1407/2002 of 23 july 2002, which expires on 31 december 2010. in the absence of a new legal framework allowing certain types of state aid to the coal industry, member states may grant aid only within the limits set by general state aid rules applicable to all sectors. compared with the coal regulation, the general state aid rules significantly reduce the possibilities of state aid to the coal industry. it is therefore likely that some member states will be forced to close their coal mines and deal with the resulting social and regional impacts of this decision. i understand that given the regional concentration of coal mines, the social impact of simultaneous closure of the mines could be significant. in view of the jobs in industries related to the coal industry, up to 100 000 jobs may be at stake. i therefore agree that the closure plan be extended to 31 december 2018 and that the production units be closed definitively if they do not become competitive by that date and provided that the eu's energy needs do not require their existence.
in writing. - this report takes a positive view of and amends the european commission's proposal to amend this regulation, which in turn already amended the period of validity of the possibility of granting state aid to the coal industry. if this change did not occur, the deadline would have been 31 december 2010. now the new proposal from the european commission proposes to extend the support until 2014. however, the european parliament has approved a proposal, which we also voted in favour of, extending support until 2018, which seeks to take account of the problem at both the social level (preventing dismissals of workers and their difficult integration into the labour market) and the environmental level, with the support it advocates for its resolution. the commitment to safeguarding the maintenance of coal industries which have become competitive in the process is also positive, but it stresses the need to safeguard environmental and public health issues. the need to rehabilitate former coalmining centres is also stressed, in particular: the removal of mining equipment, work to make the underground zone safe, cleaning up the area and the removal of waste water.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, while important environmental issues such as energy sources and climate change are at stake, economic issues such as the retention of non-competitive production units in the economy in a time of economic and social crisis are the social issues that must be defended. we cannot take any measures that will aggravate the crisis. the response to the crisis is investment and protection of people, which in this case means ensuring the conditions for the closure of these mines in a foreseeable period of time after the crisis has been resolved, defending jobs and fighting unemployment.
in writing. − the support provided in this report is key to helping to support potential unemployed in this industry. preparations must be made immediately for the vocational retraining of workers affected by the closure of mines and all possibilities for using regional, national and union funds for financing must be explored. the financing of environmental protection measures and of the costs of long-term mine closures should be continued beyond 2014. a premature cessation of subsidies to the coal industry by member states could cause enormous environmental and financial problems in the regions concerned and could prove even more costly than a gradual elimination of these subsidies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, while important environmental issues such as energy sources and climate change are at stake, economic issues such as the retention of non-competitive production units in the economy in a time of economic and social crisis are the social issues that must be defended. we cannot take any measures that will aggravate the crisis. the response to the crisis is investment and protection of people, which in this case means ensuring the conditions for the closure of these mines in a foreseeable period of time after the crisis has been resolved, defending jobs and fighting unemployment.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1472/2002 of 23 july 2002 on state aid to the coal industry expires on 31 december 2010, which would oblige some member states to close their coal mines by that date and to cope with the considerable social and regional impact of these simultaneous closures. the commission proposal was to provide the member states with a regulatory framework to allow them to extend the support granted until 31 december 2014, and parliament extended this deadline until 31 december 2008, thus ensuring that the conditions for solving this problem in a sustainable way in social and environmental terms were met.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the work of the acp-eu joint assembly in 2009 because i consider it essential that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) continues to play the role of monitoring the negotiations of economic partnership agreements (epas) and fosters interaction between parliamentarians, with the aim of greater transparency for all processes. i believe it is important in this respect to strengthen the parliamentary dimension of cooperation work, recognising that the creation of the african union and the growing power of the acp-eu partnership agreement are bound to pose a challenge to acp-eu cooperation and, consequently, to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. given that in 2009 the commission and the acp countries made proposals for the second revision of the cotonou partnership agreement, it is important that the app keeps abreast of developments in order to ensure that it can survive and move forward as an institution. this cooperation between the european parliament and the jpa, which started in 2007, resulted in the creation last year of a full-fledged delegation for delegations with the jpa.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009, as i consider that this assembly continues to constitute an important framework for an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the european union and the acp countries. with a view to a more efficient and democratic cooperation process, it is necessary to involve the parliaments of the acp countries more closely in the formulation and drafting of strategic cooperation plans and to involve them more actively in the negotiation of economic partnership agreements together with the european authorities.
in writing. - without calling into question the importance of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009 and its undeniable contribution to cooperation and development, i cannot but express my concern about the content of paragraph 6 of the eva jolie report, where we read: 'encourages the jpa to continue its work in this area and to explore additional and innovative sources of development finance, such as an international financial transaction tax.' i do not believe that international taxation of financial transactions is of great benefit to the acp states.
in writing. − the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) met twice in 2009, when the commission and the acp countries made proposals for the second revision of the cotonou partnership agreement to be negotiated during 2010. in view of the regionalisation of the acp group brought about by the economic partnership agreements, it is important that the acp closely monitor developments to ensure that it can survive and move forward as an institution. i would stress the concern of the ppp with the repercussions of the current financial crisis, the adoption in luanda of a resolution on the impact of the financial crisis in the acp countries and the resolutions on the impact and the fight against the crisis in the acp states.
in writing. - the full fulfilment of the role of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in supporting north-south cooperation and in strengthening the parliamentary dimension of this cooperation, to which the rapporteur refers, requires the defence of certain fundamental features of this assembly. its wide representation is both its greatest asset and an essential requirement for the full exercise of its role. we must therefore reject any attempt to reduce this representativeness on the pretext of cost containment, by defending the pluralist character of the assembly, without which some of its principles would be seriously distorted and some of its basic objectives compromised. we must also ensure that all means are available to ensure that all parliamentarians, both from the eu and, in particular, from the acp countries, participate effectively and widely. that is why we have repeatedly noted with concern that the necessary conditions for such participation have not been ensured, particularly as regards interpretation services. official languages of eu and acp countries are often omitted, as has been the case on more than one occasion with portuguese. this is a serious flaw that needs to be corrected.
in writing. − the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2009, at which important decisions were adopted on a range of issues, including the food and financial crisis, the situation in somalia, climate change and the situation in madagascar. they also brought together several working groups to discuss a number of relevant topics, including: training for better governance, urban construction and re-housing projects, disabled people, rural tourism and minority rights in the czech republic. it is this diversity and the discussion of issues of importance to both sides that make these periodic meetings important in trying to find solutions to the problems facing the less-favoured regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009, in this context highlighting the role of the acp, which has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in north-south cooperation, contributing to the deepening of an open and democratic dialogue between the eu and the acp countries.
in writing. - i approve of this report, emphasising article 67 on the different legal systems and practices and access to justice, aspects for which mutual recognition should contribute to a better understanding of the different legal systems and practices. i believe that enormous progress has already been made in the area of civil justice in the eu and that this ambitious plan for a more strategic and less fragmented approach to civil law must reflect the real needs of citizens and businesses and take account of the difficulties of legislating in a shared area of competence, with harmonisation being a possibility in the face of overlap. the different legal approaches and constitutional traditions of the different member states should therefore be kept alive, but at the same time an eu-wide approach should be devised in this area, so as to better address the problems at the global level, while also mentioning the need to ensure the functionality of the measures already put in place and to consolidate the progress already made, so as to move forward consistently towards a correct and functional implementation of the stockholm programme.
in writing. - i am pleased to note the enormous progress made in the field of civil justice since the union was given competence in the field of justice and home affairs and the ejn was set up. i also congratulate the commission on the very ambitious plan it has proposed, which makes it possible to respond to a significant number of the demands that have been made by the european parliament. it is essential to adopt a more strategic and less fragmented approach, based on the real needs of citizens and businesses when exercising their rights and freedoms in the single market. the stockholm action plan should reflect these needs (in terms of mobility, right to employment, equal opportunities, business needs, etc.) while promoting legal certainty and access to swift and effective justice. we cannot ignore the difficulties of legislating in a shared area of competence, where harmonisation is rarely an option and overlap is to be avoided. the differences in legal approaches and constitutional traditions between the various legal systems can serve as a source of inspiration for a european judicial culture, but should not constitute an obstacle to the further development of european law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates specific mechanisms that promote legal certainty and access to swift and effective justice. in the context of the stockholm action plan, it is necessary to ensure that the exchange of good practice between judicial systems pays particular attention to the needs of individual citizens and businesses, facilitating mobility within the eu area, the right to employment and equal opportunities.
in writing. − the areas of civil, commercial, family and private international law are some of the most sensitive areas of law applicable in each member state. i therefore believe that any change to them should be treated with particular caution, bearing in mind, first of all, the principle of subsidiarity. respect for the different legal systems, the consensus around them created in each of the respective political communities and their legitimate options must always be borne in mind by the european legislator who cannot and must not hide the fact that he is dealing with peoples and nations with stable, established and deeply rooted legal orders. i therefore recommend that the projects and initiatives proposed be adapted and proportionate to the actual needs of the people and that they be carefully assessed. i am also aware that there are legal relationships which, by their very nature, are more likely to call for the application of the laws of more than one country. i recognize the goodness of much of what is advocated and which is intended to contribute to the exchange of best practice and to the realisation of a true ems.
in writing. − the stockholm programme adopted by the european council in december 2009 sets out the priorities for the development of the european area of freedom, security and justice over the next five years. union law facilitates mobility and enables citizens to exercise their rights of free movement, while strengthening trust in the european judicial area. the commission's action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme envisages making use of the tools available following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon to help facilitate everyday life and business exchanges between citizens of the european union, reconciling the needs of citizens and the single market with the diversity of legal traditions between member states. i support this report by stressing that some areas should be given priority, such as civil aspects and mutual recognition of documents.
in writing. − the own-initiative report covers a wide range of complex issues, drawing on the civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law aspects of the stockholm programme action plan. that is why the rapporteur's suggestions are also met with a mixed response. in some cases, we find them positive, particularly when they refer to the need to encourage debate on problems relating to maritime, commercial and family law. but in portugal there is still an unresolved question of the specialisation of magistrates in those areas. in the family courts, the very nature of the issues involved requires that, as a condition for the appointment of judges to those courts, they have specific training. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade mark is protected. here too, in portugal, delays are very great and it is recognised that many of the magistrates have difficulty in deciding on very specific matters.
in writing. − the areas of civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law are among the most sensitive areas of law applicable in the various member states. i abstained on this report because i consider it essential that the principle of subsidiarity should always be present in these matters, particularly in those relating to family law and when dealing with issues such as mutual recognition of marriage and family law.
in writing. − the stockholm programme adopted in december 2009 sets out the priorities for the development of the european area of freedom, security and justice over the next five years, highlighting the important results already achieved and hoping that the measures proposed will help to meet the real needs of citizens and businesses by facilitating their mobility and the exercise of their rights and freedoms in the single market, without compromising the requirements arising from the principle of subsidiarity and respect for the diversity of the legal approaches and traditional constitutions of the various member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow millions of portuguese workers will go on strike. and they 're going on strike with a very simple message: it is not the working people, it is not the pensioners, it is not the young people, it is not the unemployed who have to pay for the crisis for which they are not responsible. we cannot understand the current impasse over the european budget without looking at the context in which it is situated, which is the context of the social tragedy, the austerity policies that are being imposed on our countries. the austerity policies are not only unfair, they are a colossal economic mistake which promises to bring the european union back into recession, which promises a horizon of unemployment and which, above all, promises to accentuate the divergence between surplus and deficit countries. in this context, we must be very clear about this budgetary debate. for us, there is no currency without a consistent budget and, let us be practical, the budget for 2011 that we are discussing is not just modest, it is a mediocre budget, it is a budget that does not respond to the crisis, it is part of the crisis. that is why it is important that it does not happen again in 2012, in 2013 or after 2014. this is the question we are discussing, the question of the future: whether we want a europe held hostage by governments or whether we want a europe that continues to be trapped by the interests of the financial system. the european left is indeed interested in discussing own resources. we do not want new taxes on european citizens, but we certainly want to discuss how to make financial capital pay what it has not paid, pay what it owes. because that is the message that our citizens, the workers and the unemployed, demand from this house and from the european union. either we want a european project that is low-key and without any ambition, or else it is clear that we cannot be satisfied with the scenario that is being proposed to us by the united kingdom and a group of governments: "do more with less money because this is the europe we have to offer you".
mr president, in the negotiations with the council on the 2011 budget, the european parliament did everything possible to reach an agreement. the only requirement is that the commitments made by the council, such as the eu 2020 strategy and the need for its funding, and the lisbon treaty are respected. in fact, the european parliament must be involved, voting, giving opinions and being consulted, under the treaty, on the new interinstitutional agreement in the next multiannual financial framework and on the definition of new own resources. logical demands, simple demands, demands in the interests of the citizens, in the interests of preventing risks and institutional conflicts, demands which should be shared and defended by the council. as regards the interinstitutional agreement, it is obvious that flexibility for the current multiannual financial framework is a condition for the commitments made by the european institutions and, in particular, by the council to be respected. the european union 2020 strategy, the iter programme, the european external action service and financial supervisory bodies are some examples that need funding. the council must incorporate the treaty of lisbon, both in terms of the new powers that the european union is assuming and which are reflected in the budget, and in terms of the strengthening of the european parliament's powers, particularly in the budgetary area, which also strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the institutions of the european union. in this way we have a more democratic governance with the use of the community method instead of intergovernmentalisation. i hope that some national egos will not undermine and hinder the project of peace and solidarity and european progress.
the commission's work programme for 2011 is clearly a continuity programme. among the proclamations of 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' are the prevailing trends that are at the root of the severe imbalances within the eu, the real divergence of economies in the eu, the deep crisis and recessionary prospects faced by some member states, unemployment and deep social injustices. the commission's proposal for a directive on the organisation of working time is based on the principle of the free movement of workers. the programme states that, as regards financial regulation, 'most of the measures to fill the gaps revealed by the crisis have already been put forward'. it is therefore confirmed that the promises to end tax havens and derivative financial products have been missed. it is thus confirmed that financial speculation continues to be allowed to take place. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and to the protection of the environment and the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the matter, which is the subject of the debate. we all hope here, from the speeches we have heard from the council and also from this parliament, that he will be able to receive this nobel prize in freedom or that he will be released as soon as possible. it would honor the person he is, committed to china's peaceful transformation, a literary critic, teacher and author who has always, through the world of ideas and words, sought to bring freedom of expression and democracy to china. the document letter 08, for which liu xiaobo was arrested, as mr olivier chastel has already pointed out, is a constructive and peaceful document, which led precisely to liu xiaobo's arrest. at this point, we know what needs to be done: work for the release of liu xiaobo and all political prisoners in china, work also for the release of liu xiaobo's wife, liu xiaobo, who is under house arrest, and end the harassment of her family, her friends and her lawyers. to do this, china must ask itself why it reacted, for example, to the recent release of aung san suu kyi, calling her an important political figure, while failing to recognize that for many people around the world, liu xiaobo is also an important political figure. but above all, china must be aware of the sad, the bad image it has made with this bitter diplomatic offensive around the world to prevent high representatives of the world's diplomacies from being present in oslo at the nobel prize ceremony. of course, the chinese leadership may want to live in a fantasy world, and we understand why they want to live in a fantasy world, where there is no opposition. what they can't do is try to force us to live by the dictates of this fantasy world. that is, i believe, the main question we are faced with. it is very easy for us in this house to take our indignation to the chinese authorities and to put all our complaints to the chinese authorities, but i think we should also turn to the european authorities first and start with our own governments. recently, the government of my country, portugal, when we were visited by high-ranking chinese dignitaries, diverted an amnesty international demonstration from the place where the convoy was supposed to pass and placed that demonstration a few hundred metres from that place; in france, the same thing happened, that is, a demonstration was placed on the eiffel tower; as we have seen here, david cameron also recently traveled to china, very interested in doing business with that country, but forgetting to make just a few coercive references to human rights. we know that here in europe there are two weights and two measures. we say a few words of circumstance about liu xiaobo, but our governments are interested in negotiating. so, our homework should start here.
the peace novel prize liu xiaobo has been a consistent and courageous defender of human rights since the tiananmen massacre. this parliament thus joins baroness ashton and the commission in demanding her immediate release so that she can go to oslo in december to receive the nobel prize, and demands freedom of movement for his wife, family and friends, which has been particularly restricted since the nobel prize was announced on 8 october. the threats and intimidation manoeuvres of the chinese authorities to prevent the ceremony in oslo are a disgrace. no government would be worthy of respect if it succumbed to such cheap blackmail. china is a permanent member of the un security council and, in accordance with the un charter, has special responsibilities to respect and enforce human rights at home and abroad. china has done a lot for some economic, social and cultural rights of millions of chinese, who have been lifted out of poverty and misery, but it cannot stop there. it must respect and enforce the civil and political rights of its citizens. without this, their own development will be compromised in the long term. liu xiaobo is not a criminal, he is a brave and committed citizen who has brought prestige to china and the chinese people around the world and who the chinese people have nothing but reason to be proud of. beijing must release liu xiaobo, his wife and his friends, must release sakharov prize winner hu jia and all other brave chinese citizens who dare to fight for democracy, freedom and their most basic rights. if i don't release them, it's china that gets discredited. it is the chinese regime that is demonstrating its inability to lead its country to become a respected and influential global power. we will not stop calling for the release of liu xiaobo and all those who fight for freedom in china.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all answer your written question on the simplification of the cap, a subject which is important, as i have said many times since i have been a commissioner, and which we will take into account in future regulations. i should like to begin with the first part of your question: what has the commission already done to make life easier for farmers? i think that if we look at what has been done in recent years, the answer is simple: it has already done a lot to simplify, it has already put in place many measures to simplify the lives of farmers. in march 2009, the commission presented the communication: 'a simplified cap for europe - a win-win for all'. this communication highlights the activities carried out in recent years and gives some indication of the reduction in administrative burdens thus achieved. i do not want to repeat every element of this communication, but i would like to give you some examples. firstly, the adoption in 2007 of the council regulation on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products has significantly reduced the bureaucracy of the framework for the application of european legislation on the common agricultural policy. because of its technical nature, the purpose of this common organization of the single market was not to change basic policy but to harmonize provisions, thus making the cap rules simpler to administer and lighter, more accessible and less burdensome to apply. simplification was also one of the main reasons behind the commission's health check proposals. the regulation adopted in 2009 simplifies the provisions of the single payment scheme and thus improves the effectiveness of the 2003 cap reform. in addition, to illustrate the progress made in the agricultural sector, i would also like to refer to the action programme for the reduction of administrative burdens in the european union. in the context of this programme, several evaluations were carried out. the results of these evaluations show that administrative burdens in the agricultural sector have been reduced by 36%, well above the overall programme target of 25%. last year, my predecessor presented a first response from the commission services to the list of 39 simplification suggestions that had been put forward by 13 member states in april 2009. some of these 39 suggestions were implemented in late 2009/early 2010. another part is in the 'simplification' package which has just been adopted by the commission in relation to direct payments and rural development, and regulations have been tabled in the council and parliament. as regards the second pillar, the commission has launched a study on the administrative burden on beneficiaries of rural development programmes. this study focused on two categories of measures: agro-environment and farm modernisation. the results of this study will be used in our reflections on the cap after 2013. in conclusion on this first point, i would also like to inform you that the programme, which includes a stay on a farm for officials of the directorate-general for agriculture and rural development, is continuing. this programme, also known as the harvest experience, helps us to get in touch with the reality of the field and to use this experience in the decisions we prepare. on the second part of your question - how the commission will take parliament's suggestions into account in its work on the cap after 2013 - i can assure you that i am also concerned about these issues and that we will take into account all the analyses we have already made with a view to simplification, but also the proposals we are going to make, which do not go in the direction of more bureaucracy but in the direction of more assurance for the taxpayer as to the proper use of money. i am open to any technical suggestions you may have on this point as well. at the beginning of december i will be meeting your colleagues on the committee on budgetary control, who will also ask me what the commission is doing to ensure that public money is well spent. the commission, in this case, can only apply regulations which have been adopted by the council, often with the opinion of parliament. it is not the commission that adds administrative tasks. the commission is merely applying council regulations which already exist. i can assure you that in future we will not make proposals which complicate matters but which will, on the contrary, make the common agricultural policy more credible in terms of content. as far as farmers are concerned, their main role is, as i have already said, that of agricultural production; it is also because of this activity that part of the cap money is allocated to this policy. as regards what we are going to do for the period after 2013, i would like to inform you that, in parallel with the preparation of the legislative package for the cap after 2013, i have decided to set up a high-level group at technical level between the commission and the member states to ensure that this legislative package does not create more bureaucracy, but on the contrary simplifies where possible. as george lyon said, often the bureaucracy that the farmer finds in the field is not just what the commission does. you know that the management is shared with the member states and we often have applications which differ from one member state to another, precisely because we have a national administration. it is not the commission's job to simplify. i told you, the commission has already simplified. simplification is also needed at member state level. in reply to mr george lyon's question on scotland, the commission is also simply respecting the regulations which say that for farmers who do not respect the cross-compliance standards, penalties must apply not only in scotland but in northern ireland and throughout europe. once again, this is a rule which, if we do not respect it, discredits us as far as the commitments that farmers make to respect european legislation are concerned, since cross-compliance is not a standard added by the commission, by a member state or by another, but stems from european legislation which is translated into these regulations. governments will receive more details by early december, when the commission presents the results of its audits.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the simplification of the cap is a proposal which we have all been advocating for years. but it is still a long way from being fully achieved despite the efforts which, it must be acknowledged, the commission has been making. i would like to make it very clear, however, that for the socialist and democratic group, simplification cannot be understood as any kind of openness to facilitation or the absence of rigour in terms of control or monitoring of public aid. no pretext can be invoked to circumvent this elementary requirement of transparency. we now have an excellent opportunity to achieve this with the start of the new discussion on the cap post-2013. but there will be no significant progress in terms of simplification without a simplification of the architecture of the common agricultural policy itself. that is what the socialist and democratic group has been saying. last april we published a document in which we advocated a rearrangement of the two pillars and we are pleased to note that the commission has taken up some of our suggestions in this regard. i do not understand how it is possible for unrelated production support, which is subject to similar criteria of an essentially environmental nature, such as direct payments, agri-environmental measures or compensatory payments to less-favoured regions, to have different bureaucratic treatment and controls and not be included in a single unified system. i also find it very difficult to understand that many of those who talk most about simplification are precisely those who are most resistant to changing the current architecture of the common agricultural policy. i therefore look forward to the commissioner's work in the immediate future and the implementation of the guidelines he has just presented to us, and i take this opportunity to express my hope that all those who want genuine simplification will demonstrate this by action in the discussion we are now starting on the future of the common agricultural policy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, when this parliament voted in may on the resolution on simplifying the cap, we pointed out that this simplification could not result in less support for farmers, nor in the dismantling of the instruments for managing the markets. i remember that the resolution we adopted itself also warned against this. six months after the resolution was adopted, there are still serious concerns, which are being exacerbated by the commission's recent communication. the traditional measures of market management, such as public intervention and others, must not and cannot be dismantled under the pretext of alleged rationalization and simplification, otherwise the process of destroying small and mediumsized farming in many countries will continue and intensify. there is certainly a lot to be done in the field of simplifying the cap, a lot of positive and even necessary things. i am referring, among other possible examples, to the need to change penalties, particularly where they concern non-compliance which is not the responsibility of the producer, to simplification of application procedures, to changes in the level of animal identification, among many others. but in addition to simplification which benefits all farmers, and in particular small and mediumsized producers, the cap also needs a fundamental change which strengthens the instruments of intervention, ensuring fair prices for production, which recovers the instruments of regulation of production, such as quotas and production rights, which guarantees each country, and since we are talking about simplification, something as simple as the right to produce, the right to food security and sovereignty, and which enshrines the principles of modelling and capping aid by overcoming the current imbalances between producing countries and production. the commission's insistence on subjecting agriculture and food production to the market and to competitiveness is a matter of great concern to us. the result of this policy of liberalization has already been shown: the unstoppable abandonment of production by millions of small and mediumsized farmers, the precariousness of incomes, the increasing volatility of prices, the worsening of food dependence in many countries and regions. a simplification which serves the interests of farmers, especially small and mediumsized farmers, and which allows them to continue their production, yes. we are not going to accept simplification which destroys production and the producers, and we will continue to fight against it as we have done so far.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the communication of the general principles which will guide the new common agricultural policy has given new hope to small and mediumsized farmers throughout europe by highlighting their irreplaceable role in the future of european agriculture, a hope which must be realised. that is why the simplification of the cap is particularly necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we will also be able to make the system more friendly to many small producers who do not apply today because of the bureaucracy involved, and thus avoid these losses. it is certainly worth the effort, commissioner.
the problems affecting european beekeeping are unfortunately more serious and more profound than some cyclical crises which recurrently affect other seemingly more important sectors. the problem of beekeeping is first and foremost an environmental problem, with consequences that can be catastrophic if we are not able to give it an adequate response in a timely manner. two figures from the fao, quoted in the draft resolution and referred to by mrs lulling, are illuminating: 84% of plant species and 76% of food production depend on pollination. but agriculture is also an important economic activity in rural areas, with great potential for growth, since european production is far from meeting our needs. no livestock activity (and i put livestock in commas, of course) is so closely linked to nature and sustainability and plays such an important and irreplaceable ecological role as beekeeping. so these are more than enough reasons why we should not spare any effort or resources to investigate the main causes of the alarming and progressive mortality of bees and to support health programmes. this debate should also be a reflection on finding imaginative and effective ways of including support for this particular landless livestock in the support mechanisms of the new cap, at the very moment when the area unit is envisaged as the basic criterion for the granting of new aid. i would therefore like the commission to tell us what immediate answers it has to this problem and whether it intends to fit this activity into the new architecture of the common agricultural policy which we are about to start discussing.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mortality of bees is increasing and the number of beekeepers is decreasing, a problematic situation for agriculture, for biodiversity, as has been said here, given the enormous implications for food production and for plant species which depend on their pollination. the life span of a worker bee is very short (about six weeks) and very sensitive to changes in the external environment. honey production has therefore also been affected, not only by the increasingly uncertain duration and stability of the seasons, but also by the increase in external aggressions that may result from the use of pesticides, mites or other sources, and on which a higher level of research could contribute to better applied responses and a more appropriate reinforcement of measures in favour of biodiversity and the reduction of the effects of climate instability. the commissioner, the current programmes must undoubtedly be strengthened in the framework of the new cap so that we can also get more effective responses here.
mr president, let us be clear, the solidarity mechanism for sovereign debt has not worked, it does not work, the price of greek debt has not fallen, ireland is in economic turmoil and the contagion has not been contained. the process that has been created has been created late, it is intergovernmental and should have existed in another format since the beginning of the creation of the euro. the president of the commission has now come to propose that this system be consolidated. but the third instrument proposed is to involve the private sector. we had already heard that proposal from chancellor merkel and it was as a result of that premature and untimely announcement that the markets soared. parliament will use its powers fully and with the greatest responsibility and spirit of cooperation in the codecision process accompanying the legislative package on economic governance, but it will not do so by sacrificing haste, speed, putting quality in second place. so let us be clear, parliament will be actively involved, but a matter as serious as the sovereign debt problem cannot be decided on the sidelines and without the knowledge of the european citizens and their representatives, the two elements are together. finally, we europeans need a clear european vision at this time of crisis. we need a european sovereign debt consolidation mechanism, we need a eurobond issue and we need the euro area to be protected in a sustainable way through european and not intergovernmental systems. the european budget must be strengthened (we cannot continue at 1% of the european budget) and growth and real convergence must be placed at the centre of european political priorities. this is the agenda that the commission and the new president must defend. the president of the commission cannot be an emanation of the ecofin council. this is what we need to present to the european citizens.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i would naturally like to say that the position of the epp is clear, that it is a position that the solution to this serious crisis in europe and the european union is only possible through a deepening of economic governance and the community method. we have no doubt that only with a more community approach, only with economic governance and only with the instruments of a genuine single currency in the euro area can we face and attack this crisis. but this means that each of the institutions, the council, the commission and the parliament, must assume its responsibilities towards the europeans. it must be said that it is clear that at least the major groups in the european parliament are willing to cooperate in a clear way to increase the community method, to introduce economic governance and to give the single currency the necessary conditions for it to succeed in the context of the european crisis. it is also clear today that the same is true of the commission and the president of the commission, who, contrary to what the socialists and mrs elisa ferreira say, has shown that he is neither an emanation of the council nor an emanation of parliament, but an emanation of the european interest. it is now up to the council in december to take up its responsibilities. that is what we are counting on, and on your clear commitment to the european dialogue, president van rompuy.
mr president, portugal is experiencing the largest general strike in 20 years. this struggle follows similarly important struggles in several european union countries, such as greece and france. and what is the response of the main officials in the council and the european commission? they ignore the protests against their anti-social policies and insist on the same policies that have contributed to the situation we live in. they were not aware that the euro's vulnerability was the result of the policies they were pursuing, the liberalisation of the capital market, unlimited financial speculation and the demand for nominal convergence through the stability pact, while the real divergence of economies was worsening, unemployment and poverty were reaching unbearable levels and social tensions were multiplying. how long will they continue on this path? what is needed to break with these policies and focus more on production, employment and the value of work?
(question to mr paulo rangel, under the 'blue card' procedure, rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) mr president, thank you for giving me the floor, but i have asked to speak under the 'blue card' rule because i was asked directly by my colleague paulo rangel and therefore would have liked to have been given the floor earlier. i would like to take this opportunity to ask mr paulo rangel to explain to us all what he thinks are the concrete differences between mrs merkel's proposals and the commission's proposals on the management of sovereign debt, and why the commission's first proposal, which was in fact european, on the management of sovereign debt, was thrown in the bin without any discussion or public debate when it was realised that it did not converge with the interests of germany.
(answer to question no 8 by mrs elisa ferreira, pursuant to rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) i would like to say very briefly that there is no doubt that there is of course a permanent negotiation between the institutions in the european process, but that the commission's position has been to persistently defend the community method and to defend the deepening of the single currency. of course there are members who like to come and make national policy for the european parliament, as is the case with mrs elisa ferreira.
mr president, the european union is facing an hour of major reforms. this is what the response to the crisis and the defence of a single currency requires, which requires rules, also single rules, applicable to all states. the european parliament has already taken a leading position on economic governance, advocating greater cooperation between the 27 member states in the direction of growth, a firm stance on the implementation of the stability and growth pact and solidarity between the member states, and it was the first institution to refer to the need for a fund for the debt of the different countries that make up the union. we shall therefore continue to cooperate with the commission, and i congratulate its president, and we hope that we shall also cooperate with the council. we have six reports under discussion at the moment and we will take a very clear position on them.
in writing. − the floods of november 2009 severely affected ireland, causing severe damage estimated at over €520 million. the amending budget provides for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to cover the losses incurred in the amount of eur 13 022.500,00 in commitment and payment appropriations. as i said yesterday, i believe that the mobilisation of the fund to help those who have suffered the most from this natural disaster and, consequently, the amendment of the european union budget to this effect are fully justified.
in writing. − on 24 september 2010, the european commission proposed a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, which is based on point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. this is the first proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund for the financial year 2010. the iia allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. it is important to note that the objective of the fund is not to compensate for private damage but to repair infrastructure and the fund is a refinancing instrument. the irish authorities estimate the total damage directly caused by the disaster at eur 520,9 million. the commission proposes to mobilise eur 13 022 500 of the ceiling of eur 1 000 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the effects of the floods in ireland. i agree with this amending budget, provided the legal requirements are met.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in favour of ireland following the floods that struck that country last november. however, once again we criticise the delays in the mobilisation of this fund. from the time the application is made, until the member state actually receives the aid, many months - in this case more than a year - pass from the disaster. the mobilisation of this fund (and possibly other funds, depending on the circumstances in each case) needs to be accelerated in order to respond to emergency situations effectively and quickly. there should also be a cohesive dimension in the capacity to cope with the consequences of disasters, reducing disparities between the different regions and eu member states. once again, we reaffirm that it is also important to strengthen disaster prevention by putting into practice the recommendations which this parliament has recently adopted.
in writing. - this draft budgetary correction makes perfect sense in view of the purpose of the funds mobilised through the solidarity fund. the floods in ireland in november 2009 caused widespread damage, including to the agricultural sector, residential and business buildings, the road network and other infrastructure. i would, however, like to point out the delay in mobilising this kind of support. the process needs to be made less bureaucratic and more rapid in order to respond in time to future disaster situations.
in writing. - having regard to draft amending budget no 8/2010 to the general budget for 2010, which covers the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in the amount of eur 13 022 500 in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in ireland and the corresponding reduction in payment appropriations of eur 13 022 500 under heading 04 02 01 - closure of the european social fund (esf) - objective 1 (2000-2006), i voted in favour of agreeing with the council's position on draft amending budget no 8/2010.
in writing. − i welcome this draft amending budget which provides for the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund (esf) in the amount of eur 13 022 500 in commitment and payment appropriations to help ireland following the floods of november 2009, which caused extensive damage to the agricultural and business sectors, to infrastructure, including road and water networks, and to residential areas, totalling over eur 520 million.
in writing. − the low turnout in the recent referendum on how to elect the president of the republic of moldova and the fact that the country is led by an interim president demonstrate its governance difficulties and the disillusionment felt by the population. the situation in transnistria is adding to this and is placing particular strain on the moldovan authorities and population. the country still has a long way to go towards institutional stabilisation and the establishment of a fully-fledged rule of law, and it therefore deserves particular support and attention from the european union. the participation of moldova in union programmes is an important step in this direction.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of moldova and the european communities was concluded on 28 november 1994 and, as of 2004, moldova is covered by the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the draft recommendation concerns the participation of the republic of moldova in community programmes. on 18 june 2007, the council issued guidelines to the commission to negotiate framework agreements on the general principles for participation in community programmes with 13 neighbouring countries. negotiations with the republic of moldova started in march 2008. the republic of moldova shall contribute financially to the specific programmes in which it participates. these financial contributions vary from programme to programme and are set out in the memorandum of understanding. the conclusion of the protocol will allow moldova to gradually open up or participate more fully in certain community programmes, as it provides an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, as well as the strengthening of political relations through the eastern partnership, as well as the negotiations for a new association agreement. political stability and democracy are essential for the full implementation of the protocol.
in writing. − the ec-moldova partnership and cooperation agreement was concluded on 28 november 1994 and, as of 2004, moldova is covered by the european neighbourhood policy. on 18 june 2007, the council issued guidelines to the commission to negotiate framework agreements on the general principles for participation in community programmes with 13 neighbouring countries, and in march 2008 negotiations were opened with the republic of moldova. the protocol includes a framework agreement on the general principles governing the participation of the republic of moldova in community programmes and agencies. the republic of moldova shall contribute financially to the specific programmes in which it participates, which shall vary from programme to programme and shall be laid down in the memorandum of understanding. but the question is the demand that the european union makes in the name of 'political stability and democracy', seeking to interfere in the internal affairs of a country, openly taking sides with the forces in moldova that harbour the interests of eu economic groups, undermining the independence and sovereignty of this country and the expressed will of its people. that is our disagreement with the resolution that was adopted.
in writing. − moldova has been making efforts over the past few years to increasingly converge with european benchmarks of freedom, democracy and good governance. the efforts outlined here have been consistent and have demonstrated that moldova is concerned about continuing its path towards possible enlargement. the recent elections did not go well and the fact that you are currently presided over by an interim president is not the best sign that the degree of consolidation of your democratic culture is on track. in addition, the transnistrian issue, which may in some way cause instability, must be taken into account. the eu must continue to make every effort to ensure that the reforms that have been implemented in moldova continue on track, and this is where this partnership and cooperation protocol is going.
in writing. - since 1994, the date of the ec-moldova partnership and cooperation agreement, there has been a privileged channel of relations with moldova. in 2004, moldova became a member of the european neighbourhood policy. institutional cooperation between the eu and neighbouring countries may or may not be part of a country's eu accession process. regardless of this outcome, the eu, as a supranational entity, is guided by a set of values based on peace, freedom and democracy, which it considers to be fundamental to the prosperity of the european continent. it is essential that cooperation with neighbouring countries be accompanied by a special union attention to the stability of those countries, without interference, supporting the institutions on a path towards the effective implementation of a full rule of law and full respect for human rights. the ratification by moldova last october of the rome convention establishing the international criminal court is a very positive step in this direction. in this context, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the conclusion of an additional protocol to the eu-moldova partnership and cooperation agreement on an eu-moldova framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of moldova in union programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol to the eu-moldova partnership and cooperation agreement because i believe that the assistance that the eu has provided to moldova is essential for this country to be able to institute the necessary reforms and achieve the desired political stability, in full respect of the principles of the democratic rule of law.
in writing. - the amendments tabled by the european parliament to a commission proposal on information on medicinal products justified my vote in favour, as i consider it essential that citizens have easy access to information on medicinal products, in particular by making information available on the internet in all european languages.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards information to the general public on medicinal products subject to prescription. this directive establishes a community code on medicinal products for human use and contributes to guaranteeing the right of patients to reliable, accessible, independent and validated information on available medicinal products by the competent authorities.
in writing. − directive 2001/83/ec establishing a community code relating to medicinal products for human use provides for a harmonised framework for the advertising of medicinal products at community level, the application of which remains a responsibility of the member states. this legislation prohibits advertising to the general public of prescription medicines. however, the provisions on information on medicinal products are not regulated, which only provides that information on certain supply activities is exempt from the advertising provisions. thus, community legislation does not prevent member states from establishing their own approaches to the provision of information on medicinal products, provided that the above-mentioned rules on advertising are respected. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to exclude the possibility of pharmaceutical companies making information available in newspapers, magazines and similar publications or on television and radio.
in writing. the proposal for a directive amends the previous directive on the provision of information to the general public on medicinal products subject to prescription. in general, the responsibility for informing the public is concentrated on the pharmaceutical companies, ensuring that the information cannot be used for advertising. the commission is also given the role of monitoring and deciding, by means of delegated acts, on the definition of what constitutes information and what constitutes advertising. we believe that this approach centralizes too many information functions at the level of the pharmaceutical companies and the commission, functions which should be carried out in a sovereign, coordinated and certified manner by the specific national authorities, in order to improve the information provided to patients and the public and to defend their rights.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the health and safety of workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the health and safety of workers. however, despite the clear improvements introduced by parliament's report, i abstained because some of the guarantees that would be necessary for citizens to have access to clear and independent information on medicines remain weak.
in writing. − access to quality information on prescription medicines will help to achieve better health outcomes for patients, as the better informed they are, the better they can understand decisions about their treatment. the aim of this proposal cannot therefore be limited to harmonizing european legislation, but must also promote health by improving knowledge in the field of health. the pharmaceutical industry has an important role to play in promoting health literacy, but this role needs to be clearly defined and the participation of the sector strictly regulated in order to prevent commercial logic from leading to an excessive consumption of medicines.
in writing. - i consider it essential to draw a distinction between information and advertising for medicinal products for the protection of citizens. my vote in favour of the fjellner report is based on the clear improvements that have been made to directive 2001/83/ec. the vast majority of those who approved this document were convinced that the patient's right to information should be defended. the work done by the european parliament in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in improving the proposal originally put forward by the european commission is noteworthy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, welcoming the fact that the compromise amendments introduced in the commission's initial proposal have made a decisive contribution to ensuring that patients have access to reliable and independent information on prescription medicines available on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription. this regulation lays down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use, establishes a european medicines agency and contributes to ensuring the right of patients to reliable, accessible, independent and validated information on available medicinal products by the competent authorities.
in writing. − given the importance of adherence to the treatment regimen and the correct administration of medicines for the success of a treatment, it is essential that the public (patients) have access to quality, true, up-to-date, non-misleading and non-promotional information in accordance with the summary of product characteristics (spc). the person best placed to provide current and accurate information for each medicinal product is its marketing authorisation holder ('mah'). parliament has decided to put the emphasis on the interests of patients and to protect them. i could not agree more with this approach, although i do not think it requires us to restrict the possibilities offered by the commission's proposal for the pharmaceutical industry to disseminate information on a 'push' basis. it was a balanced proposal that took into account the interests of all parties, involved health professionals and protected the public from advertising msrm, which remained, well, prohibited. i believe that with the text now adopted, little will actually change in the reality of patients' access to information, which i consider to be a lost opportunity.
in writing. − access to quality information on prescription medicines will help to achieve better health outcomes for patients, as the better informed they are, the better they can understand decisions about their treatment. the aim of this proposal cannot therefore be limited to harmonizing european legislation, but must also promote health by improving knowledge in the field of health. the pharmaceutical industry has an important role to play in promoting health literacy, but this role needs to be clearly defined and the participation of the sector strictly regulated in order to prevent commercial logic from leading to an excessive consumption of medicines. it is also necessary to avoid misleading advertising and to try to better inform the consumer (patient), who has access to a variety of information without control via the internet, and not the same for reliable information provided by pharmaceutical laboratories.
in writing. - the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 on the provision of information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to prescription introduces new rules on transparency and effectiveness of information, placing the emphasis on the interests of patients by protecting them, which was the reason for my vote in favour. to highlight the establishment of a european medicines agency and the clear contributions to ensuring the right of patients to reliable, accessible, independent and validated information by the competent authorities on available medicines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to prescription, regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, as i believe it is essential to ensure that patients have access to reliable and independent information on medicinal products subject to prescription available on the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast), because i believe that the agreement reached with the council is consistent with the objective of contributing to the protection of human health and the environment by simplifying and making existing legislation more coherent.
in writing. - according to the commission, 9.3 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment (eee) are sold annually in the eu alone, the majority of which are large household appliances and computer and telecommunications equipment. due to market growth and innovation cycles, waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is considered to be the fastest growing waste line. weee is estimated to grow to 12.3 million tonnes in 2020. the aim of the recast of the directive on the restriction of the use of certain dangerous substances (rusp) is to extend its scope and strengthen its preventive part so that, in accordance with article 174 (2) of the treaty, the correction of environmental damage is to be done as a matter of priority at source. however, this directive focuses mainly on large distributors, ignoring the budgetary impact it may have on eee-producing smes, and does not present solutions in the wake of both the com (2008) 0809 proposal and the report on biointelligence, which states that smes producing medical, control and monitoring equipment may face problems under this new regime.
in writing. − the present recast of the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rohs) is necessary, according to the commission, because of uncertainties about the scope, lack of clarity on the legal provisions and disparities in the member states as regards the conformity of the products concerned. i received several calls before the vote to reject the inclusion of pvc in the list of substances identified for priority review in annex iii of the rohs directive. i would point out that i disagree with this inclusion in that an indiscriminate listing of a number of suspect products, in which pvc has been included, is meaningless. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. however, in the case of pvc, a first assessment under the reach regulation concludes that it is of low hazard and is therefore not a priority substance for inclusion in annex iii. i voted in favour of this report because during the negotiations before the vote in plenary this listing was withdrawn. the commission should now carry out a reassessment three years after the entry into force of this legislation.
in writing. − the volume of sales of electrical and electronic equipment in the eu and the inevitable increase in waste from such equipment lead to the need to replace some of the hazardous substances that constitute them, in order to minimise their impact on the environment and also to ensure the protection of consumers and public health. we recognize this need and value the search for solutions that meet it. we therefore voted in favour of this report. in the course of the discussion process that has taken place in recent months, the council has reached agreement with parliament, after negotiations on some of the most controversial and worrying issues. we welcome the fact that the final text proposal excludes polvinyl chloride - pvc from the scope of the directive, which makes it possible to safeguard production in some industrial sectors, particularly in portugal, which could be seriously harmed if it were included, as has been proposed.
in writing. − the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment is a major problem for public health, the environment and waste management. these risks are increased by poor recycling and recovery operations in developing countries and, above all, by illegal export for landfill in poorer countries. with this draft legislation, all the materials concerned will be included in the scope of this directive. in future, all materials should therefore comply with the provisions of the directive if an environmental assessment deems it necessary. the directive contributes to the establishment of clear rules in the member states concerning the placing on the market and reuse of these substances. this directive will bring a significant improvement to the present situation, and i have therefore voted in favour of it. i do, however, believe that some dangerous substances which have been left out of the directive should be included in the next three years, after a review and impact assessment.
in writing. - the increasing use of electrical and electronic equipment, together with the enormous technological development of the latter, leads to an increasingly shorter life cycle, and poses serious problems with regard to the use of dangerous substances in such equipment, such as difficulties in managing the increasing number of waste. the purpose of this directive on the restriction of the use of certain dangerous substances (rusp) is therefore to extend its scope and to strengthen its preventive element, so that, in accordance with article 174 (2) of the treaty, the correction of environmental damage is to be carried out as a matter of priority at source. this reformulation is essential for the successful reduction of hazardous substances in this type of equipment.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast) is due to the improvements introduced in the framework of the agreement with the council, which have contributed to major improvements in the protection of public health, the environment and waste management. the simplification and greater coherence of the new legislation should be emphasised. in the context of a large increase in sales of electrical and electronic equipment in the eu, it was imperative to reorganise and restrict the use of hazardous materials. with this legislation we are helping to prevent the waste we produce from electrical and electronic equipment such as mobile phones, computers and refrigerators from harming the environment and human health through the introduction of chemicals into the environment, either through landfills or by the release of toxic gases in incineration.
in writing. − the commission believes that for reasons of clarity and legal certainty, the current directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, adopted in 2003, should be recast. the first step in this reformulation is to extend the scope of the directive in order to contribute to the protection of human health and the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment. in this respect, it is important to stress the need to take due account of the potential impact of the proposed solutions on smes.
in writing. − it will make it possible to strengthen international cooperation in the fight against counterfeiting by creating a tool for effective protection of ipr. it should not create new rights but ensure respect for existing rights through repressive measures and the creation of a comprehensive international framework for assistance to parties. it is a difficult agreement, with conflicting interests and which allows for controversial interpretations as to its effects. it is essential that ipr be protected, but on the other hand it is essential to strike a balance that ensures that freedom of expression and innovation is not threatened, or that limitations are created to the exercise of the civil and fundamental freedoms of individuals. counterfeiting is a very serious problem, posing enormous risks to european industry, the economy and innovation. i hope that this agreement will be a step in the right direction and that in the next negotiations it will be possible to resolve ambiguities and omissions which still exist in the text, such as the reference to false geographical indications. i commend the commission for its efforts to increase the degree of transparency of the negotiations and i hope that it will maintain this position by keeping parliament fully informed of the progress of the negotiations.
in writing. - i agree with the motion for a resolution on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta), which was adopted after many months of debate and after an effort to find a compromise solution between the various political groups, which unfortunately was not achieved. in the interests of sound functioning markets, the protection of the single market, the competitiveness of european businesses in a global economy and the creation and maintenance of jobs in the eu, it is important that the eu should make the fight against counterfeiting in all its forms a priority of its internal and international policy. aware that acta does not provide a solution to a complex and multi-dimensional problem such as counterfeiting; however, as stated in point 3, i believe that acta is a valid tool to make existing rules more effective, thereby benefiting eu exports and protecting rights holders when operating in the global market, where many holders of industrial and intellectual property rights are currently victims of systematic and widespread infringement of copyright, trademarks, patents, designs and geographical indications.
in writing. - i abstained on the resolution on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement because i considered that the text, although containing important considerations, was excessively critical of the agreement under consideration. i believe that, overall, acta is favourable to the eu's economic interests and balanced in the combination of the protection of intellectual property rights and the safeguarding of fundamental rights.
in writing. - following strong parliamentary pressure, the degree of transparency of the acta negotiations has increased substantially and, since the new zealand round of negotiations, parliament has been fully informed. the negotiated text reflects the main concerns expressed by parliament, in particular on issues such as respect for fundamental rights, privacy and data protection, respect for the importance of a free internet, the usefulness of safeguarding the role of service providers and the need to safeguard access to medicines. the fight against counterfeiting is a priority and international cooperation is essential to achieve this objective. with the accession of new emerging and developing countries to the agreement promoting a general protection of intellectual property rights acta could achieve the desired multilateralism.
in writing. − the negotiated agreement is an important step in the fight against counterfeiting and is a key element of the eu's political strategy to ensure fairness, a level playing field for european producers, the preservation of jobs for citizens and respect for the rule of law. the fight against counterfeiting must be a priority of the domestic and international political strategy and international cooperation is essential to achieve this objective. acta is a tool that makes existing rules more effective, thus benefiting eu exports and protecting rights holders when they operate in the global market. i stress the importance for european businesses and employment in the eu of protecting geographical indications and welcome the efforts made by the commission to include protection of geographical indications in the framework of acta. finally, i would stress the importance of the commission confirming that the implementation of acta will have no impact on fundamental rights and data protection, nor on the eu's current efforts to harmonise measures to enforce intellectual property rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion because it represents an important step in the fight against counterfeiting without calling into question issues such as the circulation of generic medicines and guaranteeing fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and data protection.
in writing. − the launch of the draft anti-counterfeiting trade agreement on 2 october 2010 following the tokyo round of negotiations is very important. however, it is also necessary that the commission communicates to parliament and the public the final text of the acta agreement after the technical aspects negotiation meeting held in sydney from 30 november to 3 december 2010. the fight against counterfeiting is a major priority of the domestic and international political strategy and international cooperation is essential to achieve this objective. we are fully aware that the negotiated agreement will not solve the complex and multi-dimensional problem of counterfeiting, but it is a step in the right direction to end this serious problem which is responsible for serious damage to the eu economy and to the gdp of the member states.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the joint resolution tabled by the socialist and democratic, liberal, green and united left groups on acta (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement) because i consider its text to be too critical and that it should be more balanced. the text presented gives a clear indication that our final position will be against the adoption of the agreement. i believe that the agreement is overall in the union's economic interests, especially as we want to base our economy on innovation and r & d ('smart growth'). that is why, in my view, stronger protection of industrial property rights, including patents, is essential for european competitiveness. i also believe that the initial concerns about generic medicines, the protection of the right of access to the internet and the protection of geographical indications (denominations of origin) have been satisfactorily overcome in the final negotiations. we cannot ignore the progress that has been made. of course, not everything is satisfactory, but an international agreement must be judged globally.
in writing. - i am convinced that this motion represents an important step in the fight against counterfeiting while maintaining the necessary balance between conflicting values. freedom of expression and innovation are not compromised and fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and data protection are guaranteed. there are conflicting interests which make it difficult to reach consensus, but an agreement is, at its core, a meeting of common wills, which has been achieved here with some success. the commission's position on the transparency of these negotiations, keeping the ep informed, is welcome and i hope that in the next negotiations the ambiguities and omissions still being raised by all parties will be resolved. i believe that the agreement reached will strengthen international cooperation in the fight against counterfeiting, create a tool for effective protection of intellectual property rights and guarantee fundamental rights. it is also essential to ensure respect for existing rights through repressive measures and the establishment of a comprehensive international framework for assistance to the parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion because it represents an important step in the fight against counterfeiting without calling into question issues such as the circulation of generic medicines and guaranteeing fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and data protection.
in writing. − the fight against counterfeiting, which is a worldwide phenomenon, requires a multilateral approach based on enhanced cooperation between the major global players. in this respect, although i am aware that the negotiated agreement will not solve the complex problem of counterfeiting, i am convinced that it is a step in the right direction.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work on this report. the energy sector is the main engine of economic growth. since 2008, europe has had a strategy for energy and climate change. implementing this strategy is essential, but the treaty of lisbon allows us to go further, paving the way for the creation of a true energy community in europe. we need to deepen the internal energy market, build and interconnect networks, ensure energy security and solidarity and put the consumer at the centre of our concerns. there is an urgent need to increase funding and develop means and programmes to encourage energy efficiency. scientific research and technology play a key role in achieving these objectives. in this connection, i welcome the launch of several european industrial initiatives under the european strategic plan for energy technologies and call on the commission to implement the remaining measures of this plan. the 8th framework programme should also give priority to research and development of innovative technologies in the field of energy. it is therefore essential that there is adequate funding to support clean and sustainable technologies. only in this way will we be able to maintain the competitiveness of our industry, promote economic growth and create jobs.
in writing. i consider this new energy strategy to be imperative to achieving a competitive, sustainable and secure strategy. at a time when europe is increasingly dependent on imported energy, i believe it is essential that it continues to play its leading role in energy issues by focusing on innovation and technology. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in raw materials and the common organisation of the market in natural gas is a welcome step towards the creation of a single market in the energy sector. i come from an ultraperipheral region which already has an energy autonomy of some 27% and which is projected to reach 75% by 2012. the azores have more ambitious specific targets than the eu, with results already recognised at european level, notably in geothermal energy, through an ambitious energy policy of partnerships between the region and the best national and international research centres. the union should look at these examples and increase its support in the field of research, innovation and development of its projects.
this report seeks to contribute to a new energy action plan under the europe 2020 strategy. in principle, a new plan can be a major initiative, provided that the errors and shortcomings of the previous ones are taken on board. it is no use insisting on the approach and proposals that have left us short of what we wanted. the following are some of the strategic shortcomings of european energy policy which should be taken into account: energy policy has been positioned as an appendage to environmental policy, the ultimate aim of which is to open up new fields for financial speculation by making greenhouse gas emission allowances profitable. but the energy problem calls for a specific approach based on improving specific indicators such as energy intensity or the energy deficit. in the energy sector too, it is assumed that by implementing the functioning of markets, where private investors operate, everything will be solved as if by magic. three successive packages of legislation have gone, public resources have been alienated and we have no competitive markets, no investment in infrastructure, no more affordable energy for consumers. a failure in the whole line of announced objectives. the argument that biofuels only have environmental advantages and would bring major agricultural and industrial development to european countries has been debunked.
mr president, i will repeat some of what has been said here. it was said that cancún is expected to be a significant intermediate step in the fight against climate change, just as it was also said that we cannot go any further or be any more ambitious than we were in copenhagen and accept what we had as a result of the copenhagen summit. we know that it was not enough, and therefore if there has been no change in the scientific evidence and the data we have, what seems to me to be a change in political will, a lack of courage, and we are afraid to go to cancun. i think that giving up cannot be an option in what is one of the most serious crises of the present time. i would also like to say that we have an opportunity to test ourselves in cancun, to test ourselves in several of the things that have already been mentioned here, but also to test ourselves in our capacity for redistribution and our capacity to support the poorest countries and the most disadvantaged populations. i believe that responding to the environmental crisis is also responding to the economic and social crisis we are experiencing today in a way that is solidarity-based and fair. this is being realistic.
the international context of this conference is not favourable: the global economic crisis, political and administrative uncertainty in the united states, the impasse in the negotiations between the united states and china. so expectations are low, but nevertheless, cop 16 should be seen as an opportunity to restore confidence in the multilateral process on climate change and consolidate the copenhagen accord. at least that, and even for that it takes determination and political leadership during the negotiations, and ambition in the decision. progress is needed particularly in areas affecting developing countries: financing, technology transfer, training. but progress is also expected on mitigation, in particular on setting ambitious and binding emission reduction targets and on the transfer of processes, including monitoring, reporting and verification. regardless of the outcome of the international negotiations, the european union must pursue the objective of reducing co2 emissions by more than 20% in order to create green jobs and economic growth. in short, the cancún outcome should contribute to the definition of the post-2012 horizon with a view to reaching a legally binding international agreement in 2011 and meeting the global target of limiting the temperature increase to two degrees.
the success of the cancun climate conference is fundamental to the credibility of the negotiating process within the united nations. it is therefore important that concrete commitments and realistic targets are set. it is essential to reach agreement on such matters as forest protection policy, technology transfer to developing countries and financing. in the event of no global agreement, there should still be an openness on the part of europe to consider a second commitment period to the kyoto protocol, but with conditions, notably on the environmental integrity of the protocol, the redesign of the clean development mechanism and the commitments of the world's major emitters such as china and the united states.
the european union bears its own responsibility for the failure of copenhagen and the lack of progress in the international negotiations. it is not enough to claim to be ambitious, setting targets above those of some other developed countries, even if they are below those recommended by the ipcc, when they do not take care of the means. more than the goals that have been the focus of the discussion, the means to achieve those goals matter and this is a central issue. the european union insists on a market approach, on market instruments which have so far revealed two things: inefficiency and perversity. we have a new treat for financial speculators: it is not just food, it is not just the sovereign debt of states, it is also the atmosphere itself, the air we breathe, which is serving up some new multi-billion dollar scheme for the generation of fictitious financial assets. commissioner, it is in the irrationality of this economic and social system that we find the causes of climate change. it is in breaking with this system that we find the solution.
in writing. for the climate summit in cancun starting next monday, i am in favour of a binding agreement with an international sanctions regime. clearly, this agreement only makes sense if it links the world's largest emitters: the united states, china and india. the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change, and it should be encouraged to strengthen that leadership, but without forgetting the tremendous efforts our industries are already making to meet mandatory emission reductions in the european space. it is noted that the eu contributes 15% to global emissions, estimated to fall to 10% in 2030, while the us, china and india contribute half of the global emissions with a tendency to increase. i cannot therefore agree that the eu should limit itself to 30% of co2 emissions instead of the 20% target, if this is not properly accompanied by other countries, in particular the united states. this does not mean that the eu's ambition should be diminished. on the contrary, i believe that even if others do not follow, we must continue to invest in scientific research, in technological innovation in decarbonised energy, in energy efficiency and in the creation of green jobs in order to increase our competitiveness.
madam president, at the upcoming eu-africa summit in libya, eu leaders will face meles zenawi, the prime minister of ethiopia. ethiopia is not only the second most populous country in africa and the headquarters of the african union, it is also the partner – in terms of the cotonou agreement – which has prevented the delivery of the eu election report in addis ababa in 2005, and more recently in 2010, in order to avoid exposing the irregularities and the manipulation of the elections. what good is the talk of democracy, human rights and good governance, which the eu is going to have with african interlocutors, if meles zenawi, the dictator of ethiopia, is the interlocutor for africa?
the africa-eu strategic partnership established in 2007 at the lisbon summit allowed the two continents to define common strategic interests and objectives, which went beyond the traditional eu development policy. the objectives set were put into practice by the adoption of the 'africa-eu joint strategy' and the 2008-2010 action plan which identifies eight priority areas: • peace and security • democratic governance and human rights • trade, regional integration and infrastructure • millennium development goals • energy • climate change • migration, mobility and employment • science, information society and space. the 3rd africa-eu summit to be held in tripoli, libya, will focus on 'growth, investment and job creation' with the aim of outlining common long-term guidelines in these areas, while safeguarding the priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy. i believe that this is an opportunity for portuguese economic operators to strengthen their business network in the african market, but it is important to safeguard the issues of insecurity and the high levels of crime transmitted by the portuguese community, in particular the madeiran community living in south africa. it is therefore necessary to strengthen and develop concrete and concerted cooperation, while adapting it to the new challenges in international relations.
the events in western sahara in recent weeks have not been an isolated episode. they are part of a long history of three and a half decades of repression, of violence, of oppression of a people. a history of constant attempts by morocco to block the negotiations on the realization of the inalienable right of the saharawi people to self-determination. this is therefore the occasion to condemn once again the brutal repression by the moroccan authorities in the occupied territories against all those who resist colonization and fight for the legitimate right of their people to self-determination. it is also an opportunity to denounce the real humanitarian tragedy being inflicted on the saharawi people, who are forced to live outside their homeland in refugee camps, and to call for urgently increased international humanitarian aid. we are also demanding compliance with international law and un resolutions, with the necessary holding of a referendum. the european union and its member states have a heavy responsibility in all this, which they cannot ignore or else they will become accomplices, morocco being a country which enjoys a special status as a result of the various agreements it has with the european union.
the brutal attack on the sahrawi peaceful protest camp has dealt a stab at the un-brokered talks. it reminded me of east timor in its darkest days: un talks and attacks on the population to thwart them. spain could be advocating the former colony it abandoned, as portugal was for the self-determination of east timor, but it is not, so as not to compromise business and other interests in morocco. it's been reported today that madrid and the un have been notified of the attack. from negligence to complicity, it's a chick. france has special responsibilities in encouraging morocco to continue the occupation. and the european union: the high representative didn't speak until weeks after the attack, with a minimalist statement that was irrelevant. in this resolution, parliament speaks out for the european union: it calls for an independent international inquiry into the events and the identification of the dead, missing and arrested; it calls for unrestricted access for the international press, humanitarian organisations and observers; it calls for the un to monitor human rights in western sahara and calls for the immediate release of all saharawis detained in morocco and the occupied territory of western sahara.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade defence instruments are not used in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the community. the commission has recently said in a communication that trade liberalization depends on fair competition between domestic and foreign producers. 'eu production must be protected from distortions or disturbances of international trade by the application of trade defence instruments in compliance with the rules of the world trade organisation'. - very good. but in addition to a good legal basis, an effective and predictable decision-making mechanism is needed to achieve these objectives. now, my question is this: does the recent council proposal on control by member states of commission implementing acts, including trade defence measures, meet this desire, this guarantee to ensure that trade defence measures are actually taken? i would remind you that this council proposal provides for derogations from the general rules on comitology, which make it possible to make it difficult, if not to block, delay and at least politicise the decision-making of the commission in this area. the second question is about this: the commission also states in that communication that it will examine the appropriateness and the way to proceed with the updating and modernisation of our trade defence instruments. my concern is that if the commission does not fight this proposal from the council of the union on the procedure for taking trade defence measures, what assurances can it give us that when it comes to the issue of review it will resist the same member states that are interested in weakening and undermining the application of trade defence measures?
first of all, i would like to thank mr diamandourus for his work and for the report he has given us. it is undoubtedly a work of rigour and quality, and i thank you for that. i would like to speak more about the question of quantity than quality, because it is also interesting to know how often citizens use these services. apparently, there are a few thousand complaints, and of those few thousand, some are unfathomable. but it's interesting to know why there are no more complaints. i mean, it's a matter of glass half full or glass half empty. i wonder to what extent the very overly complex and opaque nature of the european institutions and the legislation on which they are based is not at the root of the difficulty of a relationship between the citizen and the institutions. in other words, to make a complaint you need to know your rights, to know your rights you need to know the legislation and the mechanisms necessary to make such a complaint. so, rather than making suggestions to mr diamandourus, i would ask the ombudsman to make suggestions to us, that is to say to parliament as a legislative chamber, to simplify the legislative procedures and, as far as possible, the institutional mechanisms of the european union. we talk a lot about transparency and clarity, but simplicity is also a democratic value, which we often forget, because it allows universal access to the institutions. mr diamandourus, i am at the same time on the committee on civil liberties and rights, which has the same votes. i want to assure you that i will pay attention to your answers in this area.
in writing. - we are currently experiencing an institutional impasse on the 2011 budget, with some states blocking the commission's proposal in the council. i hope that this impasse will be overcome as soon as possible, since the budget must respect the commitments and responsibilities of the european union under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the european parliament wants the lisbon treaty to be respected and institutional peace to prevail in the eu. the ep must be involved, by voting or giving an opinion, under the treaty, in the new interinstitutional agreement, the next mff, and the definition of new own resources. as regards the interinstitutional agreement, it is obvious that flexibility for the current mff is a condition for the commitments made by the european institutions, and in particular by the council, to be respected. eu 2020, the iter programme, the eeas - external external action service -, financial supervisory bodies, are some examples that need funding. the council must incorporate the lisbon treaty both in terms of the new powers that the eu is assuming, which are reflected in the budget, and in terms of the strengthening of the ep's powers, particularly in the budgetary area, which also strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions. we have thus a more democratic governance with the use of the community method instead of intergovernmentalism. the ep calls for the minimum that is desirable in view of the budgetary constraints of the member states.
in writing. - we disagree with the 2011 budget proposal. but we also disagree with most of the justifications put forward by the majority in the european parliament to prevent the adoption of the 2011 budget. the debate on the financial perspective for the period after 2013 is already marred by several factors: the inability of the european institutions - the european parliament and the council - to reach an agreement in the 2011 budget negotiations, the attempts of several member states to press for a reduction in the amount of money in future budgets, the insistence of others on new eu own resources, suggesting the creation of european taxes to be added to national taxes, paid by citizens and not by the financial sector, the insistence on the full implementation of the lisbon treaty and the opposition of the wealthier countries to significantly increase their contributions to the community budget. in any case, while we agree that 'new responsibilities must involve new resources', we cannot support a resolution which does not advocate a distribution of community funds aimed at economic and social cohesion, tackling the crisis and defending employment with rights, and not reinforcing militarism or repression.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has brought new responsibilities to the european parliament, which imply increased costs. these needs translate into a slightly higher budget for 2011 than in 2010 to enable the european parliament to fulfil its responsibilities properly. the impasse in the negotiations with the council is not good for anyone, and despite the crisis europe is going through, an understanding is needed if the eu is to meet the objectives outlined in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − considering that the council's position on the draft budget set a ceiling for payment appropriations which represents an increase of 2,91% over the 2010 budget and that on 15 november 2010 the parliament-council conciliation committee failed to reach agreement on a common text for the 2011 budget, i voted in favour of the resolution as i agreed to the conditions imposed by parliament on the council and the commission in order to facilitate agreement on the 2011 budget.
in writing. - i abstained on the resolution on the 2011 budget and the future financing of european policies, despite having supported all the amendments aimed at improving parliament's position in the debate and control over budgetary decisions. the compromise text actually goes back on parliament's earlier positions, which were precisely the ones that led to the breakdown of the first conciliation with the council. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by the use of certain dangerous substances. the parliamentary position also does not guarantee that a democratic conference will be held in the context of a debate involving the national parliaments on the new resources to be financed in the next financial perspective. my abstention from voting in favour of the resolution is a tribute to parliament's attitude, a criticism of the position of governments who want more european powers with less money, but it does not endorse bad agreements or a mediocre budget.
in writing. − this resolution is a clear sign of parliament's commitment to overcome the current impasse on the 2011 budget.
in writing. − the inclusion of the human rights clause or the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations should be a principle to be safeguarded by the eu. i therefore support the eu's aim of lobbying within international organisations (including the wto and the ilo) or advocating the creation of a new environmental organisation to promote fair trade. if europe has to respect strict social and environmental standards, the same level of standards must be required of its partners, but this is possible if we take account of the progress made in the free trade agreements. however, a clear regulatory framework within the io is needed, which can be achieved by enhancing the dialogue within the io, in particular on the mandatory application of these standards in trade agreements and the necessary monitoring mechanisms and incentive practices, as well as the strengthening of arbitration panels. gsp instruments, which allow the union to grant trade preferences unilaterally, could be an opportunity to identify more accurately the beneficiaries taking into account their level of development and the monitoring of the commitments made.
in writing. - i believe that social and environmental standards are not incompatible with the commercial interests of the european union and its partners. strengthen cooperation between international organisations in the framework of a global climate agreement, including on carbon mechanisms complementary to the community's emissions trading system, while ensuring that existing gaps are closed. i support the eu should also lead efforts towards the use of bilateral free trade, so as to include not only human rights terms but also sustainable development issues.
in writing. − i recognise the complexity of the discussion on the inclusion of human rights and social and environmental clauses in trade agreements and am mindful of the imbalance between international trade rules and other rules of international law. i believe that the european union has a decisive role to play in the search for a new model of global governance and, in this respect, it must promote the coherence of the policies developed by the international institutions. i believe that the european union must be able to strike a balance between a restrictive and a liberal approach to trade, and a compromise between defending its commercial interests and demanding respect for the values on which it is based. it is therefore necessary to foster dialogue and partnerships of cooperation with international institutions, in particular the world trade organisation and the international labour organisation. i would also point out that the treaty of lisbon has introduced changes in the area of trade policy which are in line with some of the proposals made in this report. i therefore vote in favour of most of the measures contained in this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements', because trade policy must be consistent with the eu's objectives and must contribute to safeguarding its social model and environmental policy. as such, it is of the utmost importance that the eu ensures that certain social and environmental standards are applied in international trade agreements.
in writing. - the question of whether we should trade with those who do not have the same standards of respect for human rights is an old one in international relations and threatens to become eternal. i believe, with the utmost realism, that the union must strive to ensure greater acceptance of standards deemed appropriate and seek to link the countries with which it negotiates to the global effort to respect those rights. i believe that the union cannot fail to recognize the importance and centrality of this issue in the economic and diplomatic field when it comes to establishing lasting trade channels. however, as is well known, we are not always in a position to impose these standards or to make such demands. while these are often formally respected, it is also true that the union is aware of partners who regularly fail to comply with them. the main energy suppliers in europe are: that said, i would reiterate the importance of continuing to fight for human rights and making them a condition for the establishment of sound trade relations.
in writing. − the inclusion of the human rights clause or the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations are complex issues that divide the international community. on the one hand, the nordic countries denounce the social and environmental dumping practiced by the emerging countries, which distorts competition in trade; on the other hand, the countries of the south are suspicious that the countries of the north intend to impede their economic development and resort, by applying these rules, to a form of disguised protectionism. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that trade policy must function as an instrument in the service of the overall objectives of the european union and it is therefore important that trade is not seen as an end in itself but as a tool for promoting european trade interests and also fair trade, capable of generalising the inclusion and effective implementation of social and environmental standards with all the eu's trading partners.
in writing. − eu countries and all their economic actors are scrupulously committed to respecting human rights and social and environmental standards, and it is only natural that their trading partners should be required to do the same in the wto, if world trade is to become fairer and more equitable. we are aware that sometimes these obligations are not easy to fulfil, particularly in the so-called emerging countries. however, the eu must continue to make an effort to make this happen, and it is therefore up to the eu and the european parliament to make every effort to defend respect for human life, that fair work is equal anywhere in the world and for everyone, and that the meaning of environmental and social rights (trade union rights, the fight against child labour, etc.) has a universal aspect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, as i agree with the inclusion of human rights clauses or the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations. the tension between the countries of the north, which denounce social and environmental dumping by the emerging countries, and the countries of the south, which suspect that the countries of the north intend to impede their economic development and resort, by applying these rules, to a form of disguised protectionism, is a reality. however, this conflict of interest cannot block a positive, but also legally binding, approach by the eu in its negotiations, with the inclusion of provisions on sustainable development, in particular in bilateral agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the european union, which plays a crucial role in the search for a new world economic governance, should seek to promote the coherence of the policies implemented by the various international institutions. there is now a growing imbalance between the specific rules of international trade and the other international rules. as frontline actors, we have an obligation to find new avenues of reflection, in particular by seeking to establish genuine coordination between international bodies.
in writing. the role of the european administration is vast and complex. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to ensure citizens' trust in the european institutions through an efficient administration where procedures are transparent and access to infrastructure is facilitated. i welcome the positive results in terms of reducing complaints and improving their handling at european level.
in writing. − the ombudsman's work is essential and contributes to greater transparency, bringing the union closer to citizens, while strengthening the trust that citizens place in the institutions' ability to enforce their rights. although there was a slight decrease in the number of complaints (9%) in 2009 compared to 2008, of the 335 open investigations, some 318 were completed and closed. it is quite positive that 56% of cases were closed because they were settled or subject to an amicable agreement. these results demonstrate the constructive cooperation between the ombudsman and the union institutions and bodies, which in most cases see these complaints as the ideal opportunity to remedy any mistakes made and to cooperate with the ombudsman for the benefit of citizens. i would stress the importance of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which included the right to good administration among the fundamental rights inherent in union citizenship and introduced two substantial changes: the fact that the ombudsman is now elected, reinforcing his democratic legitimacy; and the fact that his mandate has been extended to the area of the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. − the ombudsman registered a total of 3 098 complaints in 2009, compared with 3 406 in 2008, a decrease of 9%. the complaints were addressed to: the european commission (56%), the administration of the european parliament (11%), the european personnel selection office (epso) (9%), the council (4%) and the court of justice (3%). the main complaint was about maladministration and lack of transparency, including the refusal to provide information, which is so crucial to ensuring the security and confidence of citizens in the union. the need to work towards better administration and greater transparency in the institutions was thus demonstrated, and this can be achieved by a joint effort between the ombudsman and the institutions, in particular through a continuous exchange of good practice.
in writing. − the role of the european ombudsman is very important, as it helps to bring citizens closer to the european institutions. the ombudsman registered a total of 3 098 complaints in 2009, compared with 3 406 in 2008, a decrease of 9% compared with 2008, and 335 complaint-based inquiries were opened and 230 complaints were declared inadmissible. the majority of inquiries opened by the ombudsman in 2009 were against the european commission (56%). the complaints also concerned the administration of the european parliament (11%), the european personnel selection office (epso) (9%), the council (4%) and the court of justice (3%). twenty-three other eu institutions and bodies were also the subject of 59 investigations (17%). the figures in the report clearly demonstrate the efficiency of this body and its importance in the transparency of relations between the european institutions and citizens.
in writing. − the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2009 reveals a high level of activity by the body. the new legal framework reflecting the changes to the statute of the epp and the entry into force of the tfeu adding the cfsp and the activities of the european council to the ombudsman's mandate did not affect the pace of work. the average time taken to deal with complaints has gone from 13 months to 9 months. to stress the clear willingness of the community institutions and bodies to see complaints to the epo as an opportunity to redress mistakes and to cooperate with the ombudsman for the benefit of citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the 2009 annual report and sets out guidelines for the future, including the following: the call to the ombudsman to ensure compliance with the charter of fundamental rights, which has been legally binding since lisbon; the call to the commission to draw up a european administrative law common to all the union's bodies, institutions and agencies; and the warning to the ombudsman to follow the new process for the selection of staff for the european institutions through epso.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, stressing the key role played by the european ombudsman in ensuring respect for citizens' rights in the eu and in promoting a culture of service to the citizen in the institutions, based on best practice in good administration.
in writing. − the ombudsman's special report follows the commission's refusal to disclose to an environmental protection ngo three letters (part of a set of 18) sent by porsche ag to commissioner günter verheugen concerning the exchange of information between the commission and car manufacturers on a possible approach to be taken on carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles. following the ombudsman's request to the commission for a reasoned opinion on the non-disclosure of the documents, the commission extended its reply for six times (15 months), thus violating the principles of good faith and cooperation, undermining interinstitutional dialogue and the public image of the union. it is the responsibility of the european parliament, as the sole elected body of the union, to safeguard and protect the independence of the european ombudsman in the performance of his duties towards european citizens and to monitor the implementation of his recommendation to the european commission.
in writing. - article 228 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives the european ombudsman the power to receive complaints from any citizen of the union concerning maladministration in the activities of the union institutions or bodies. these complaints by eu citizens are an important source of information on possible breaches of union law. article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights states that 'every person has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union'. in the context of the consultations provided for in article 4 (4) of regulation 1049/2001, the commission shall set a deadline for the author of a document to reply and shall exercise this power in such a way as to respect its own deadlines. furthermore, the commission cannot delay or obstruct inquiries by the ombudsman in cases relating to questions of access to documents, and must respond to the ombudsman without delay in order to fulfil the duty of sincere cooperation as provided for in the treaty.
in writing. − the role of the european ombudsman is well defined and consists of investigating complaints against the institutions and bodies of the european union (eu). such powers lead to greater transparency in the relations of citizens, businesses, associations or other bodies with a registered office in the union with the european institutions. the complaint lodged by the ngo concerned in this report relates to access to documentation held by the commission. the ombudsman gave the commission three months to submit a detailed opinion, and it did so only after 15 months. by this behaviour the commission has failed to fulfil its obligation to cooperate with the ombudsman in a frank and good faith manner during the inquiry, damaging not only the interinstitutional dialogue but also the public image of the european union. i consider the european parliament, as the sole elected body of the union, responsible for protecting the independence of the european ombudsman in the performance of his duties towards european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the special report of the european ombudsman to the european parliament following the draft recommendation submitted to the european commission concerning complaint 676/2008/rt concerning the serious delay in the european commission's response to the ombudsman's services. i share the ombudsman's concerns and criticisms as excessive delays in responding to the ombudsman in any proceedings are a breach of the duty of sincere cooperation as laid down in the treaty. the commission's response to the ombudsman's request for information was not received. the ombudsman's reply was not received.
in writing. − this special report by the ombudsman followed a complaint lodged following the commission's refusal to disclose three letters sent by porsche ag to commissioner günter verheugen, and the commission subsequently extended the deadline for issuing a detailed opinion on the ombudsman's draft recommendation six times. it's important that situations like this don't happen again. the eu institutions have a duty to cooperate with each other in good faith in their relations and the fulfilment of this obligation is essential to safeguard the trust of citizens in european institutional actors.
in writing. - it is regrettable that several member states underestimate the importance of correct and timely application of eu legislation. poor and late transposition and inadequate implementation and enforcement create legal uncertainty and prevent citizens and businesses from reaping the benefits of the internal market. in 2008, 55% of the transpositions required were late, in many cases by two years or more. although the figures show an improvement of 15% in that year, we must bear in mind that there was also a 40% reduction in the volume of transpositions to be made. it is unacceptable that in may 2009 there were some 22 directives with transposition deadlines that had expired more than two years ago, and whose transposition had not yet been completed by one to five member states. to ensure more correct, effective and timely application of eu law and to detect early possible implementation problems, it is essential to strengthen cooperation between the eu institutions and national authorities, as well as between member states' administrations.
in writing. − as the european union is a legal construct, based on treaties and legislative acts, it is essential that these are correctly and uniformly applied in the 27 member states. however, we know that the member states often fail to apply or transpose the rules of community law in a timely manner or that they apply or transpose them in a weak or incomplete way. as the imco commission points out, 'poor and late transposition and inadequate implementation and enforcement of the rules create legal uncertainty and prevent citizens and businesses from fully enjoying the benefits of the internal market'. it is therefore essential that member states do not underestimate the value of the correct and timely application of eu law and that the commission keeps parliament duly informed on the state of implementation of eu law.
in writing. − poor and late transposition and inadequate implementation and enforcement of the rules create legal uncertainty and prevent citizens and businesses from fully enjoying the benefits of the internal market. it is therefore important that there is closer and more permanent cooperation between the eu institutions and national authorities, as well as between member states' administrations, in order to ensure the correct, effective and timely application of eu law. to this end, it is important that the european parliament and national parliaments use the new framework for cooperation established by the lisbon treaty and conduct annual reviews of the implementation process in a specific area of the single market. i would like to stress the paragraph in this report which calls for the commission to provide detailed data on all types of infringement and for all such data to be made freely available to parliament in order to enable it to play its role of monitoring. the compilation and classification of these data should be consistent with previous annual reports in order to help parliament to make relevant assessments of the progress made by the commission.
in writing. − annual reports on monitoring the application of european union law are essential to gauge how eu law is being applied by the member states. in 2008, 55% of the transpositions required were late, in many cases by two years or more. although the figures show an improvement of 15% in that year, we must bear in mind that there was also a 40% reduction in the volume of transpositions to be made. we can therefore conclude that there is still a long way to go before the rules deriving from community law are properly and timely transposed into the member states. only if this is achieved will it be possible for citizens and businesses to enjoy the full benefits of the internal market.
in writing. − the 26th annual report on monitoring the application of european union law (2008) aims to highlight the problems in the application and transposition of eu law. this is a document which, if properly drafted and with a comprehensive systematic framework, could be a mechanism for monitoring and speeding up the process of developing eu law. the absence of new methodologies and the lack of information in this report have led to criticism from the ep, which i support in voting in favour of this report. i cannot, however, fail to stress that delays in the correct application and transposition of eu law, in addition to creating a lack of confidence in the european institutions, affect us all as european citizens and have associated costs, making it impossible to enjoy the rights created by diplomas, generating legal uncertainty and preventing citizens from fully benefiting from the internal market. i therefore share the desire to ensure that the commission continues to provide detailed data on all types of infringement and that all such data are freely available to parliament, allowing it to play its role of monitoring the commission's compliance with its duty as guardian of the treaties.
in writing. − i believe that an assessment should be made of the added value that eu pilot brings to the infringement case management process. the availability of relevant data obviously depends on this. i would also like to stress, in line with what is said in the report, that national courts play a decisive role in the application of european union law. it is therefore necessary to support the union's efforts to improve and coordinate the judicial training of national judges and of the legal profession in general.
in writing. − broadcasting services are one of the most important sources of information available to citizens in the eu member states. as such, they are a major factor in influencing people's values and opinions. a balanced european system plays a key role in promoting democracy, social cohesion, integration and freedom of expression, with particular emphasis on preserving and promoting media pluralism, media literacy, cultural and linguistic diversity and respect for european standards on freedom of the press. the commission should adapt copyright to the new digital age, allowing broadcasting services to continue to provide a wide range of quality european content, and consider specific ways to facilitate the re-use of archive content and put in place extended collective licensing schemes and simple one-stop systems for clearing rights.
in writing. − access to information and participation of citizens in public debate are essential in a democratic european society. it is essential that there is an independent and competitive audiovisual and print media sector. in the current context of the audiovisual sector in the eu, it is in the general interest to safeguard the so-called dual system, ensuring a true balance between public service broadcasters and private broadcasters. only in this way can we ensure that there is a fairly diverse programme and contribute to pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competition in the media and freedom of expression. it is essential that there is a strong, viable public service broadcasting system, free from political pressure or lack of editorial independence and with the necessary financial support, although care should always be taken not to jeopardise the existence of fair competition with private operators. it is the eu's role to try to bring together the different stakeholders in the media sector with the aim of maintaining the existence of a healthy and viable industry. i believe that the implementation of the monitoring mechanism for media pluralism can play an essential role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the media, public and private, must be free from political and economic pressure to carry out their duties. the dual european system can play a key role in promoting democracy and freedom of expression, and in preserving and promoting media pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. − the importance of ensuring the pluralism of broadcasting services derives from the central role they play in our society, both in terms of information and pluralism and in promoting rights, freedoms and guarantees, thus contributing unequivocally to a more informed and participatory society. it is therefore essential to ensure that these services have financial and editorial independence, avoiding their politicization or their subordination to economic interests. recently in portugal, there have been several allegations of possible government interference in the news landscape, including the replacement of the director of a daily newspaper and the information director of a radio station, and the abrupt closure of a television news channel and the replacement of the general director of this private channel. in addition, there were several episodes of the removal of critical columnists and an alleged plan for a company in which the state holds a golden share to acquire a stake in a media company that owns a private channel. in this respect, it is essential to promote a two-tier system in the union which guarantees independence at all levels and ensures freedom of expression in both public and private broadcasting services, since the latter are not free from political interference.
in writing. - the eu audiovisual landscape is characterised by a 'double system'. the coexistence of public and commercial broadcasters has ensured a very diverse programme. it contributes to pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competition (in terms of quality and diversity of content) in the media and freedom of expression. i stress the need for member states to tackle the digital divide between urban and rural areas and to ensure that, through digitalisation, all individuals in all regions enjoy equitable access to public service broadcasting, as well as to offer attractive and quality content to attract young people accessing the media.
in writing. - we have seen a little bit of interference by the political powers in broadcasting services, whether public or private, all over the eu. in portugal there have been several strange situations recently with tv news broadcasters being suspended, tv station heads and managers being replaced for no apparent plausible reason, seemingly on political mandate. of course, the public sector is more subject to this type of pressure, but the private sector is not immune to it, as its revenues often depend on the sale of advertising space to the state sector. citizens have the right to a broadcasting service, whether public or private, which is independent and free in its approach to all content. i am therefore convinced that the dual european system will play a key role in promoting democracy and freedom of expression, as well as in preserving and promoting media pluralism and cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on public service broadcasting in the digital age: the future of the dual system, considering that the role of public service broadcasting in a multimedia society must take account of the concentration and pluralism of the media in the european union, media literacy in the digital world, the diversity of content and the guarantee of the independence of the public service broadcasting as a mission in the information society. indeed, the dual broadcasting system, in which public and private media perform their respective functions free from political and economic pressures, is important for access to information of the highest quality and for the promotion of democracy itself. public and private broadcasting services have a crucial role to play in european audiovisual production, cultural diversity and identity, information, pluralism, social cohesion, the promotion of fundamental freedoms and the functioning of democracy. i support the recommendations made, stressing the encouragement of the exchange of best practice between member states and the intensification of cooperation between national media regulators in the european platform of regulatory authorities (epra).
in writing. - i consider it very important that the european union brings together the different actors and stakeholders in the media sector with the aim of moving towards the formation of a healthy and economically viable industry. the rapid transformation of the media, in particular digital media, will require new solutions and will necessarily lead to the definition of a 'new media ecology'.
in writing. − women, peace and security are areas to which the utmost attention should be given. the 10th anniversary of un security council resolution 1325 is an opportunity to make progress in these areas, as are all the ongoing european policy reviews, in particular on human rights and the fight against violence against women, the use of children in armed conflict and the fight against all forms of discrimination. in addition, another aspect which i think is relevant to this report is the fact that it calls for the promotion of women's participation in reconciliation, peacebuilding and conflict prevention activities, which reinforced my positive vote for the adoption of the report.
in writing. - we are now celebrating the 10th anniversary of this first un resolution on the specific and disproportionate impact of armed conflict situations on women. i hope that the eu can take this opportunity to give a strong political signal and to step up efforts to implement it, either through political guidelines or through increased financial resources. i also hope that the current review of the eu's human rights policy will lead to the development of a coherent human rights strategy and to an assessment of the eu's guidelines on violence against women and girls and the situation of children in situations of armed conflict, with the aim of combating all forms of violence and discrimination. i believe that the establishment of the european external action service can contribute to a better implementation of these resolutions, while at the same time it should highlight the role of the eu in this area. i congratulate the 10 member states, including portugal, which have already adopted a national action plan for the implementation of this resolution and i hope that all the others will follow suit as soon as possible.
in writing. when we think of armed conflict and the more traditional war scenarios, we imagine men as their first victims. it turns out that, unfortunately, all over the world, where there are armed conflicts and threats to peace, women and children are often the first and most important victims, albeit silent. women face many threats, whether in the context of war and conflict, whether in the context of the practice of barbaric customs that violate their rights, or in the context of poverty and social exclusion. it is therefore important that europe does not forget the women who suffer daily violations of their most basic rights, such as life and physical integrity, the women who are sentenced to death by stoning, the women who are denied access to education, the women who are forced to flee and live as refugees in order to enjoy the freedom that the bill of rights gives us all and the women who are discriminated against solely on the basis of their gender. in the end, may europe not forget and turn its back on all the women who are still denied the guarantee of a future of freedom and hope.
in writing. - violence against women in conflict zones is often an extension of gender discrimination which unfortunately already exists in peacetime. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to allocate financial and human resources to the participation of women and the integration of gender issues in the field of foreign and security policy. i stress the need to establish appropriate public complaint procedures in the context of csdp missions to facilitate, in particular, the reporting of sexual and gender-based violence and invite the hr/vp to include detailed information on women, peace and security in the semi-annual evaluation of csdp missions.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution because we believe that it is not enough to have a gender perspective in civil and military missions. it is not because more women are assigned to military missions of intervention in wars and occupations, such as in iraq or afghanistan, that the problems of discrimination against women are solved or that wars become more just. reality shows us that this is not so. we believe that military interventions do not help to protect women's rights, but rather increase the violations of these rights. only conflict prevention and the application of civil measures in conflict situations are capable of fulfilling the promise of resolution 1325. we therefore regret that our amendments were not adopted.
in writing. − although we are celebrating the 10th anniversary of un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, much remains to be done in this area, particularly with regard to violence against women, eu guidelines on the use of children in armed conflict and the fight against all forms of discrimination against them. it is time for us all to join forces to make this plan come true.
in writing. − ten years have passed since the adoption of un security council (unsc) resolutions 1325 (2000) and 1820 (2008) on women, peace and security, and unsc resolution 1888 (2009) on sexual violence against women and children in situations of armed conflict. these resolutions emphasise the responsibility of all states to end impunity and to prosecute those responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes, including those relating to acts of sexual and other violence against women and girls. ten years have passed since the adoption of these resolutions, and as stated in the resolution which i voted in favour of, there is still a long way to go. the international day for the elimination of violence against women, which was celebrated on 25 november, the date of the vote on this resolution, is not just another day, but a warning to a reality that persists. these issues must be addressed at the highest level and remain on the political agenda until this scourge, which knows no race, creed or age, is eradicated.
in writing. - i hope that the 10th anniversary of security council resolution 1325 will mark the beginning of a reinvigorated agenda for the implementation of commitments on women, peace and security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the mortality of bees is increasing and the number of beekeepers is decreasing. this is a problematic situation for agriculture and biodiversity, as 76% of food production and 84% of plant species depend on pollination. i am in favour of a higher level of research, which will help to achieve better responses and a more correct reinforcement of measures to promote biodiversity and reduce the effects of climate instability, because the life of a worker bee is very short and very sensitive to changes in the external environment. so honey production has also been affected, not only by the duration and stability of the increasingly uncertain seasons, but also by the increase in external aggression that may result from the use of pesticides, mites or other. the current programmes must therefore be strengthened in the framework of the new cap, so that we can also achieve a more effective level of response at this level.
in writing. − bees play an important role in the ecological balance and their extinction has serious consequences for the food chain. this report aims to reinforce the necessary promotion and improvement of the beekeeping sector, in particular in terms of statistical data for honey production forecasts, the improvement and harmonisation of monitoring and research programmes, clarity in the definition of provisions on the labelling of honey origin, the drawing up of beekeeping programmes and related legislation, and the development of innovative and effective treatments against varroa mites.
in writing. - 40% of the european honey market is currently dependent on imports, which leads to enormous price volatility and puts beekeepers across the eu, including portuguese beekeepers, at a competitive disadvantage compared to honey from third countries. in portugal, according to official statistics, there are 17,291 beekeepers, with 38,203 apiaries and 562,557 colonies. production in 2009 was 6,654 tonnes of honey and 235 tonnes of wax, representing 1,9% of eu honey production (351 thousand tonnes). the action of bees and beekeeping is fundamental to the maintenance of ecosystems, the ecological balance of flora and the preservation of biodiversity, and economically it is an activity that makes perfect sense for europe to protect and encourage, so as to become less dependent on imports.
in writing. − bees are indispensable for the pollination of crops, for the maintenance of the ecological balance and as a preservation element of biodiversity. it is therefore regrettable that the number of colonies is decreasing, a phenomenon for which we need scientific data to enable us to understand the mechanisms that contribute to the spread of this species and to develop mechanisms for its preservation. i think it is essential to focus on european honey, which is gradually being replaced by other honey of lower quality and which does not meet the criteria for production in the eu.
in writing. - the eu is heavily dependent on imports in this beekeeping sector, as about 40% of the honey we consume is imported. given the strategic role of the beekeeping sector in society, taking into account the public and environmental service provided by beekeepers, and given that this activity is a valuable example of 'green employment' (improvement and maintenance of biodiversity, ecological balance and conservation of flora) and a model of sustainable production in rural areas, it is in the interest of all to support the sector so that it can grow sustainably and we become less and less dependent on third countries. in my country too, this sector must be nurtured so that the benefits of its activity are visible both in economic and environmental terms and so that honey production increases, as it currently amounts to only 1.9% of eu production.
in writing. - i welcome the resolution adopted by a large majority at the strasbourg plenary session on 25 november, which includes important contributions from azorean beekeepers transmitted in the course of direct consultation conducted by me. however, the text of the final resolution falls short of my initial expectations, as some of the issues of fundamental importance to producers, such as the issue of quality standards and labelling for imported honey, should have been more thoroughly dealt with. this was not the case, probably because of a lack of sensitivity to some of the important problems in the sector, which led, for example, to the fact that local labelling was not included in the final text of the resolution. the resolution nevertheless deals with important issues for azorean and also national beekeeping in general, following the work carried out in the sector, such as honey imported from third countries, which has serious quality problems and is currently insufficiently labelled; the need to continue to ensure diversified agriculture to ensure pollination; and, finally, the importance of common approval and research within the community.
in writing. − the beekeeping sector plays a strategic role in society, providing a valuable example of 'green employment' (improving and maintaining biodiversity, ecological balance and conservation of flora) and a model of sustainable production in rural areas. this sector faces numerous challenges and problems at european level, including marketing, price volatility, promotion of beekeeping among young people, declining numbers of bee colonies and increasing bee mortality, and it therefore makes sense to strengthen support for this sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020 because i consider this new energy strategy imperative to achieve a competitive, sustainable and secure strategy. at a time when europe is increasingly dependent on imported energy, i believe it is essential that europe continues to play its leading role in energy issues by investing in innovation and technology. i believe that for the energy strategy to be more sustainable, we must continue to focus on renewable energy by introducing greater competition in the sector, so that we can achieve an effective internal energy market which will lead to cost reductions and increased competitiveness of the economy, and also generate wealth and employment, which are important for the balance of trade. i come from an ultraperipheral region which already has an energy autonomy of some 27% and which is projected to reach 75% by 2012. the azores have more ambitious specific targets than the eu, with results already recognised at european level, notably in geothermal energy, through an ambitious energy policy of partnerships between the region and the best national and international research centres.
in writing. - the energy sector is a key driver of economic growth. since 2008, europe has had a strategy for energy and climate change. it is essential to implement this strategy. however, the lisbon treaty allows us to go further, paving the way for the creation of a true energy community in europe. we need to deepen the internal energy market, build and interconnect energy networks and ensure energy security and solidarity and put the consumer at the centre of our concerns. there is an urgent need to increase funding and develop more means and programmes to encourage energy efficiency. scientific research and technology play a key role in achieving these objectives. in this connection, i welcome the launch of the various european industrial initiatives under the european strategic plan for energy technologies and call on the commission to implement the remaining measures of this plan. the 8th framework programme should give priority to research and development of innovative technologies in the field of energy. it is therefore essential that there is adequate funding to support clean and sustainable technologies. only in this way will we be able to maintain the competitiveness of our industry, promote economic growth and create jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' because i believe that a new strategic direction for the energy sector is needed to meet the objectives of article 194 of the treaty, the 20-20-20 targets set in the energy and climate package, and the long-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95% by 2050.
in writing. − the commission has set three objectives for european energy policy: (i) to move towards a low-carbon energy system; (ii) to ensure security of energy supply; and (iii) to ensure that the union's competitiveness is strengthened and that energy is supplied to all consumers at affordable prices. i agree with these three objectives in general, but i think there is a fourth and perhaps more important challenge missing here: the reduction of energy dependence, particularly as regards fossil fuels. in addition, the target of reducing carbon emissions will have to be viewed very carefully in order to minimise the risks of carbon leakage and loss of competitiveness for european industries.
in writing. − the commission document 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' is an excellent contribution to an overall eu policy for the energy sector under the eu 2020 strategy. the lisbon treaty provides a solid legal basis for the development of energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, network interconnection and solidarity. we can have a new strategy for the energy sector to meet the objectives of article 194 of the treaty and the 20-20-20 targets set in the climate package. new actions to be taken in the energy sector should aim at moving towards a low-carbon energy system, where the security of energy supply for all is ensured, while ensuring the competitiveness of the union and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices. the objectives of the lisbon treaty of a single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of new and renewable forms of energy and the promotion of energy networks must be met. this strategy should be implemented in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility so that no member state is left behind or isolated.
in writing. the european energy strategy advocated in this report - and advocated by the commission in its various communications on the subject - is closely linked to the definition of a community policy described in the lisbon treaty: 'completion of the internal energy market'. the rapporteur calls for the drawing up of 'plans for the creation of a european energy community', insisting on the application and transposition by the member states of the current internal market directives, while accepting 'as a last resort the possibility of re-introducing the main provisions of the current internal market directives in the form of regulations in order to ensure their direct and full application throughout the single market'. as we have said, we are totally opposed to this proposal as the energy solution for europe and have therefore voted against the report. this is a strategic sector for the economy and the functioning of a state, which must be sovereign in defining its energy policies. in addition, the increasing reliance on imports of primary resources and the consumer price of energy combined with the divestment of energy infrastructure have already revealed the failure of this private market strategy. only the public sector can ensure that everyone has access to energy, that it is managed effectively and efficiently, and that we are less dependent on fossil fuels.
in writing. − the energy strategy for europe 2011-2020 sets out broad guidelines aimed at strengthening the newly defined internal energy market. this report strengthens the areas of competition and market instruments, but is not ambitious on renewable energy or reducing energy consumption. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment. finally, it links european energy security to close cooperation with nato. for these and other reasons i voted against.
in writing. the three objectives outlined by the commission for european energy policy are very clear and ambitious, namely: moving towards a low-carbon energy system, ensuring security of energy supply and ensuring the enhancement of the union's competitiveness and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices. to achieve them , a very strong financial and human effort is required .
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020 (2010/2108 (ini)) because, following the rapporteur's lead, i consider that the lisbon treaty, by including a specific chapter on energy, now provides a sound legal basis for the development of energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, network interconnection and solidarity. this requires a strong leadership from the commission, together with a convincing demonstration of the will and clear support of the member states, to confront the problem of late or poor implementation of energy legislation and the lack of comprehensive energy strategies. in this sense, the document 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' is a first step towards a comprehensive european union policy for the energy sector under the eu 2020 strategy. the strategy proposed for the union highlights the following: ensuring support for modern integrated networks, ensuring security of energy supply, promoting energy research, development and innovation and placing consumers and citizens at the centre of eu energy policy.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty sets out a set of clear energy policy objectives: ensuring the functioning of the internal energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the promotion of energy networks and renewable energy sources. the eu therefore needs to adopt a new energy strategy to achieve these objectives and the 20-20-20 targets set in the climate package.
in writing. - an energy strategy for europe is essential to implement the new policy under the lisbon treaty. there is now a solid legal basis for developing energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply and network interconnection and solidarity. the objectives of a structured plan, as presented to the european parliament, should be the completion of a single energy market and the security and efficiency of energy supply. it is a fact that the energy sector in europe faces many current and future challenges. the european union is increasingly dependent on imported energy and its production at home requires high investment, at a time when it is still facing the consequences of an economic crisis. i would like to stress the importance of exploiting the potential of renewable energy in the european union better and of putting eu consumers and citizens at the centre of european energy policy. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union should actively contribute to making the cancun climate change conference a promising and transparent one, particularly as regards financing for adaptation, forestry, resource efficiency, technology transfer, surveillance, reporting and verification. the european union should therefore also facilitate the building of strong political engagement with third countries through the development of policies that create effective mechanisms for international cooperation on climate change, both within and outside the united nations framework convention on climate change. the historical responsibility of developed countries for the irreversibility of climate change and their obligation to assist developing and least developed countries in their adaptation to climate change should also be emphasised, including through the provision of financial support to national adaptation action programmes, which are important instruments for climate change adaptation that promote ownership.
in writing. − the success of the cancun climate conference is fundamental to the credibility of the negotiating process within the united nations. it is therefore important that concrete commitments and realistic targets are set. it is essential to reach agreement on such issues as policies for the protection of forests, the transfer of technology to developing countries and financing. in the event of no global agreement, there should still be an openness on the part of europe to consider a second commitment period to the kyoto protocol, imposing conditions, notably on the environmental integrity of the protocol, the redesign of the clean development mechanism and the commitments of the world's major emitters such as china and the united states.
in writing. - i vote in favour of most of the measures and proposals contained in this report. following the unambitious outcome of the copenhagen conference, there is a need to restore confidence in international climate change negotiations. it is up to the european union to take up its leadership role in the climate change negotiations and to actively contribute to more constructive, transparent and bold compromise solutions coming out of cancún. i also believe that the european union should aim to step up its action in the field of climate diplomacy by seeking solid commitments with third countries in the design of policies that create effective instruments and mechanisms for international cooperation on environmental protection and climate change. in this attempt to achieve more ambitious and bold results, i also believe that, at the final stage of the cop16 negotiations, the chief negotiator on behalf of the european union should be given some flexibility so that he is able to react to the developments in the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the cancún climate conference because i believe that the european parliament must send a clear message that it is necessary for world leaders to show political determination and leadership during the negotiations in order to make progress towards the convention and the kyoto protocol.
in writing. − regardless of the debate on the origin of climate change, the role of human action in its verification and the power of human action to reverse it, it is now clear that the issue has very serious implications in the most varied areas of human life and threatens to provoke various imbalances on a global scale. it cannot therefore be left unattended with concern and rigor. climate change has caused, among other things, worrying sea level rise, forced migration, the struggle for access to waterways and the most fertile land, and has, as in the case of sudan, pitted nomadic herders against sedentary farmers. the european union must actively participate in this global effort and do its utmost to follow up the problem and to find lasting solutions which, ideally, can reconcile scientific and technological progress and the development of populations with environmental quality and respect for nature. the cancun conference is an excellent moment to pursue this objective, to set more ambitious targets and to achieve a more solid and comprehensive collective commitment to tackling the problem.
in writing. - for the cancun climate summit i advocate a binding agreement which includes an international sanctioning regime. clearly, this agreement only makes sense if it links the world's largest emitters: the united states, china and india. the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change, and it should be encouraged to strengthen that leadership, but without forgetting the tremendous efforts our industries are already making to meet mandatory emission reductions in the european space. it is noted that the eu contributes 15% to global emissions, estimated to fall to 10% in 2030, while the us, china and india contribute half of the global emissions with a tendency to increase. i cannot therefore agree that the eu should limit itself to 30% of co2 emissions instead of the 20% target if this is not properly accompanied by other countries, in particular the united states. this does not mean that the eu's ambition should be diminished. on the contrary, i believe that even if others do not follow, we must continue to invest in scientific research, in technological innovation in decarbonised energy, in energy efficiency and in the creation of green jobs, in order to increase our competitiveness.
in writing. - this resolution repeats some of the shortcomings, weaknesses and mistakes of the position adopted by parliament at the copenhagen summit (cop15), failing to recognise the causes of its resounding failure. the discussion remains overly focused on the reduction targets, to the detriment of the means to achieve them, which discredits the whole discussion. it insists on a market approach when market instruments have already revealed their inefficiency and perversity. it falls short of what would be necessary in discussing the distortions introduced by the so-called flexibility mechanisms and the need for their abolition or reformulation. there is a clear misunderstanding of the deep meaning and significance of the principle of "common but differentiated responsibility" when historically large emitters (such as the us, the world's largest per capita emitter, which resists making serious reduction commitments) and emerging economies such as china or india (with per capita emissions 10 and 4 times lower than the us respectively) are put on an equal footing. as regards the financing of adaptation and mitigation in developing countries, serious constraints on these countries, such as the colossal and unfair external debt of the least developed countries, continue to be ignored. despite some positive points, the general content of the resolution does not merit our support.
in writing. - once again, expectations are high for the cancún climate conference. the countries with the greatest responsibility in this area have to continue to work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. this is a problem that requires a short-term solution and is of concern to the whole world. the eu must be able to show its leadership in the fight against climate change. and all countries, from the united states to the so-called emerging countries, including china, which is a major polluter, must also shoulder all the responsibilities in a struggle which leaves less and less room for new opportunities. the sustaining future of mankind is increasingly at stake in a process that, if nothing is done in due time, may reach the point of no return.
in writing. - cop16 is crucial for all of us in europe and for citizens of the world in general. we need a responsible and ambitious policy at this level from all political actors. the european union has a key role to play and should lead the way in ambition in the context of climate change. in this context i voted against the european parliament's resolution because i consider that the objectives set are not very ambitious. in fact, i cannot accept a target higher than 1.5 degrees in a future global post-2012 international agreement in south africa, given the latest developments in science. as regards emission reduction commitments, the increase should also be kept below 1,5 °c, with global greenhouse gas emissions needing to peak by 2015 at the latest and to decrease by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels and then continue to decrease. these are not mere percentages, but targets scientifically studied as possible and necessary to create a decisive turning point in the path we have taken towards the destruction of significant parts of the biodiversity of our planet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must show its strong commitment and determination in the context of the global effort to find solutions to mitigate climate change and its impacts.
in writing. - i support the united nations inquiry into the question of western sahara and support the position that morocco should allow free access to this particular region for journalists, independent observers and humanitarian organisations. i am aware that morocco is a strategic partner and ally of the european union in the fight against radical islamic fundamentalism. however, i do not accept the attitude of the moroccan authorities towards the violent and serious incidents they provoked in the gadaym izik camp in western sahara on 8 november, which resulted in the death of an as yet unknown number of people. i am glad to be a member of an institution like the european parliament, which has as one of its basic principles the protection and promotion of human rights. i therefore assume that it is necessary to call on the un bodies to propose the creation of a human rights monitoring mechanism in western sahara. i commend the efforts of the secretary-general of the united nations and his personal envoy to find a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution which will allow the people of western sahara to exercise self-determination.
in writing. - the situation in western sahara has been dragging on for more than thirty years with no apparent solution. it is one of a number of cases, along with the israeli-palestinian conflict and the cyprus conflict, which are difficult to resolve and have been going on for some time. despite some welcome initiatives to open up channels of dialogue, it is now clear that the parties to the conflict have not yet been able to take concrete steps towards a negotiated solution to the conflict. the recent news of the incidents in the gadaym izik camp has raised grave concerns about the moroccan authorities' respect for the human rights of the people of western sahara and has given rise to a worrying escalation of this conflict. i hope that this problem can be put to an end once and for all and that a political and administrative solution to the conflict can be found which reconciles the interests of the parties to the dispute.
in writing. - we welcome the european parliament's strong condemnation of the violent incidents in the gadaym izik camp in western sahara on 8 november, which resulted in the death of an as yet unknown number of people. we hope that the commission and the council will demand the measures proposed here, insisting on the need to call on un bodies to propose the creation of a human rights monitoring mechanism in western sahara and to demand compliance with the resolutions already adopted, including the self-determination of the people of western sahara. as the resolution says, "the united nations would be the most appropriate body to carry out an independent international inquiry to clarify the events, deaths and disappearances". it also deplored the attacks on freedom of the press and information suffered by many european journalists and urged the kingdom of morocco to allow free access and free movement in western sahara for the press, independent observers and humanitarian organisations. finally, we stress the importance of approving increased funding for the provision of the necessary humanitarian aid to the sarawi refugees living in the tindouf region, estimated at between 90 000 and 165 000, with a view to helping them to meet their basic needs for food, water, housing and medical care and to improve their living conditions.
in writing. the situation in western sahara is very worrying and the european parliament must give a clear signal of its condemnation of what is happening there. it is therefore necessary to put an end to the violence on both sides and to embark on a transparent and good faith dialogue to put an end to a conflict which has already caused too many deaths and which continues to cause a large number of displaced persons and refugees. the eu must continue to make an effort to provide humanitarian aid to these refugees so that they have a minimum of survival conditions.
in writing. - i have supported this resolution because i consider the fight for human rights to be fundamental. in western sahara, there were cases of police violence against citizens who, without resorting to violence, were protesting in a camp outside the city - el aaiun - against the social, political and economic situation and their living conditions. police forces used tear gas and batons against the protesters to evacuate the camp. more than a political issue with a neighbouring state, we are facing a violation of human rights which we must all condemn without exception, and i therefore vote in favour of this resolution and join my voice with that of my colleagues in urging all parties to remain calm and to refrain from all acts of violence.
in writing. - i am critical of the local elections in ukraine on 31 october and would like freedom of the press to be respected. i condemn the last-minute change to the electoral law before 31 october and the fact that opposition parties were not allowed to present candidates in the constituencies. i agree with the european parliament that we must not tolerate restrictions on democratic norms and that we must preserve freedom of expression. i agree with the european parliament in condemning the kiev government for its failure to act on this sensitive issue.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because the relations between the european union and ukraine, one of the union's main partners in its eastern neighbourhood, are very important for the stability, security and prosperity of the whole of europe. aware of their shared responsibilities in promoting stability, the european union and ukraine have been intensifying negotiations and seeking new cooperation partnerships that go beyond mere economic cooperation, also integrating the areas of the rule of law and respect for human rights, where there is still so much to be done in ukraine, as evidenced by the backsliding in the recent electoral process. i would also stress the fundamental importance of ukraine's european integration process for the implementation of the necessary economic, social and political reforms. i therefore consider the conclusion of the association agreement to be particularly important for the effective implementation of the eu-ukraine association agenda.
in writing. −despite the initial gestures of president yanukovych and the successive statements by the ukrainian authorities about ukraine's willingness to join the european union and adopt european standards of good governance and respect for the human rights and civil liberties of its citizens, caution must be exercised. in fact, too often news reports are published of the retreat of freedom of expression and association, as well as of political influence in the media and the judiciary and the action of their security services. i believe that a ukraine that is true to the promises of its political leaders could begin a path towards accession, the first step of which should be the institutionalisation of a free state based on the rule of law.
in writing. - i consider ukraine a crucial strategic partner of the eu, and therefore cannot but express my concern about the excessive powers granted to the security services to intimidate ngos operating in that country to control the ukrainian media. it is also important to allow ukrainian opposition parties to participate in the elections without restrictions or discrimination. i believe that only to the extent that ukraine takes account of the recommendations in this resolution can we maintain our support for ukraine's prospects of european integration in order to secure the strategic partnership with this country.
in writing. − the recent elections in ukraine and, in the light of the statements of the osce/odhir observation mission, which considered that international standards were largely met, are a sign that this country continues to move positively towards future integration into the eu area. it is important, however, that ukrainian politicians and authorities work to ensure that political and economic stabilisation is a reality in the near future. this requires the implementation of the necessary constitutional reforms, the consolidation of the rule of law, the establishment of a social market economy and renewed efforts to combat corruption and improve the business and investment climate.
in writing. − the new political context and institutional framework in ukraine and the willingness of the newly elected president of ukraine, viktor yanukovych, and the ukrainian parliament (verkhovna rada) to confirm ukraine's determination to join the eu are another step towards opening an accession process. in accordance with article 49 teu, ukraine may apply for eu membership, like any european state which respects the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. the resolution which i voted for sets out proposals which will be communicated to the ukrainian authorities. there is still a long way to go towards institutional stability that recognises the full participation of all political actors leading to a healthy alternation of power. i hope that the strong historical, cultural and economic ties which the eu has with ukraine will be consolidated and allow the ukrainian people to join the union in due course. in this context, i stress the importance of strengthening cooperation on youth and student exchanges and the development of scholarship programmes which will enable ukrainians to become familiar with the eu and its member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must take the lead in the fight against climate change by strengthening its economic competitiveness through energy saving and renewable economies, two sectors which can improve its energy security and which have a strong potential in terms of industrial development, innovation, spatial planning and job creation. however, to fulfil this role and benefit from competitiveness, the european union will have to change its trade policies, whether bilateral, regional or multilateral, as trade in goods and services is responsible for around 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions. it should encourage the necessary disruptions in production and consumption patterns and investment strategies. it should also be active in relation to emissions from international transport and climate-friendly technologies. despite the way ahead for the union in this area, important contributions have already been made, in particular with regard to illegal timber imports, biofuels and aviation emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'international trade policy in the context of the climate change imperatives', because, given that trade in goods and services is responsible for some 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions, measures are needed at the level of the common trade policy to curb global warming.
in writing. − after the impasse of the copenhagen climate change conference, it is important that the european union continues along the lines it has followed so far, towards a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions without jeopardising european industries. but europe's commitment to reducing emissions must not lose sight of economic efficiency and must not jeopardise the economic sustainability of states currently experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis. we cannot allow the increasing transfer of technology to developing countries as a means of dealing with carbon leakage and we cannot allow policies to reduce co2 emissions to doom european industry.
in writing. the un climate summit in copenhagen resulted in a disappointing agreement that is not enough to limit global warming to below 2°c. moreover, the copenhagen accord is neither global nor binding. the eu is far from being primarily responsible for this fiasco. the eu has, on the contrary, been a leader in the fight against climate change and should be encouraged to strengthen that leadership, not forgetting the tremendous efforts our industries are already making to meet the mandatory emission reductions in the european space. it is noted that the eu contributes 15% to global emissions, estimated to fall to 10% in 2030, while the us, china and india contribute half of the global emissions with a tendency to increase. in the context of the eu's international trade policy on climate change, even if others do not follow, our aim should be to focus on scientific research, technological innovation in decarbonised energy, energy efficiency and the creation of green jobs in order to increase our competitiveness.
in writing. − implementing many of the measures proposed in this report would not make a positive contribution to combating climate change. on the contrary, supporting the lisbon treaty and 'free trade', applying palliative controls on the environmental degradation that trade liberalization is generating, will only worsen the environmental degradation that increasingly threatens the planet and everyone who lives on it. the question is whether we accept the continued unrestrained exploitation of natural resources and of workers and peoples to serve a dominant capitalist system in permanent crisis. for our part, we do not accept it and therefore oppose: the continuing insistence on control of emissions through 'emission trading', which has shown that instead of reducing emissions it increases them; greater 'opening of markets' and the division of labour at world level, so that eu capital can lay its hands on the resources of the third world countries, lowering costs and increasing profits; a green capitalism which combines 'climate protection and trade liberalisation' and 'exchanges of environmental goods and services'.
in writing. - trade in goods and services is responsible for about 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions. in many member states, consumption-related emissions are higher than production-related emissions. the european union must fight these 'traded' emissions. that is the only way to start fighting climate change effectively. for example, the eu cannot finance the fight against deforestation while at the same time encouraging it through the import of forest products and biofuels. the eu must transform its modes of production and consumption and not simply outsource its emissions. the eu should orient its trade policies towards discriminating products on the basis of their climate impact and thus contribute to the necessary disruptions in production and consumption patterns and investment strategies. the climate policies of our social partners cannot be compromised to increase european market shares. the eu must take an active stance on international transport emissions and ensure access to climate-friendly technologies from developing countries. as the report points in this direction, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the balance between international trade policy and the imperatives of climate change is not easy to achieve, but an effort must be made to significantly reduce the levels of greenhouse gas emissions for which international trade is responsible. however, this cannot be done at the expense of the loss of competitiveness of european industries, especially in a context of severe economic crisis and rising unemployment. we must find environmentally friendly policies that simultaneously boost the economy and reduce alarming levels of unemployment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep resolution on international trade policies in the context of the climate change imperatives, as i am reviewing the european council's ambitious targets for reducing european greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, which is necessary if the union is to regain international leadership in climate terms, and which will certainly lead to an incentive for other countries to make more ambitious commitments as well. i stress the importance of achieving a binding international agreement on climate protection and strongly support the launching of a public debate on the creation of a world environmental organisation. i also believe it is essential to strengthen the positive interaction between trade and climate protection, to make international trade prices fairer and to avoid carbon leakage, to encourage product differentiation in line with their effects on the climate, to ensure that trade liberalisation does not jeopardise ambitious climate policies, to fully integrate transport into the climate trade issue, to strengthen the instruments for trade-climate compatibility and the eu's trade-climate coherence from the perspective of developing countries.
in writing. − globalisation and the financial and social crisis have reinforced the need for stronger rules in the world economy, as international trade is currently only in the interests of a few economic players, who have taken advantage of trade liberalisation to outsource part of their production and diversify their supply chain from countries with low production costs and a smaller regulatory framework. i therefore accept the principles proposed in this report to conduct trade in a way that is consistent with the union's objectives and, in particular, with its external policy, which can be achieved by implementing corporate social and environmental responsibility in trade so that they no longer continue to breach the principles of social responsibility, as this is a form of social dumping which must be regulated, by endorsing the proposals in this report, in particular as regards the mechanisms for judicial cooperation between the eu and partner countries to prosecute multinational companies for serious breaches of the environment and fundamental rights and by adopting a new initiative by the commission.
in writing. − within economic globalisation and international trade there has been an increase in competitive pressure between nations which has sometimes led to serious abuses of human rights and the environment. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it particularly relevant in ensuring the development of more sustainable policies which take social and environmental issues into account, in particular by promoting corporate social responsibility. it is essential that the activities of european companies investing and operating elsewhere are in line with european values and internationally agreed standards. in particular, this report proposes that future trade agreements negotiated by the european union contain a chapter on sustainable development which includes a clause on 'corporate social responsibility', which i consider crucial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the need for a new regulatory approach to international trade. these more effective and well-implemented standards should contribute to the development of more sustainable policies that genuinely take into account social and environmental concerns and not just the profit-at-all-costs of companies.
in writing. − the principles governing csr are fully recognised at international level and focus on the expectation of responsible behaviour on the part of companies, which presupposes respect for the legislation in force, in particular in the field of taxation, employment, industrial relations, human rights, the environment, consumer rights and their involvement in the fight against corruption. i therefore welcome the fact that the eu is now incorporating a chapter on sustainable development with csr clauses in future trade agreements.
in writing. − the promotion of corporate social responsibility is an objective supported by the european union. the union shall ensure that the external policies it pursues contribute effectively to the sustainable development and social development of those countries. it should also ensure that the activities of european companies, wherever they invest and operate, are in line with european values and internationally agreed standards. according to article 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the eu's common commercial policy is to be conducted 'in accordance with the principles and objectives of the union's external action', and according to article 3 it is to contribute, inter alia, to 'the sustainable development of the planet, solidarity and mutual respect among peoples, free and fair trade, the eradication of poverty and the protection of human rights, in particular those of the child, as well as the strict observance and development of international law, including respect for the principles of the united nations charter'.
in writing. − the principles governing existing legislation, particularly in the fields of taxation, employment, industrial relations, human rights, the environment, consumer rights and their involvement in the fight against corruption, must be adopted by all companies operating in international trade. it is therefore very important that in future such clauses should be included in the trade agreements to be negotiated.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements is intended to be a wake-up call and a step forward towards a new social model based on ethics and responsibility in the business world. the failure of the welfare state model as we know it requires the creation of new realities and corporate social responsibility can be the engine of a new paradigm of evolution. in fact, global challenges have been exacerbated by the financial crisis and its social consequences. the principles governing corporate social responsibility are fully recognised at international level, both within the oecd and the ilo and within the united nations. the promotion of corporate social responsibility is an objective of the european union to which i subscribe. in this connection, i also stress my support for the establishment, within the wto, of a trade and decent work committee, where issues such as labour standards, particularly as regards the employment of children, and the social responsibility of enterprises in connection with international trade can be discussed.
in writing. - horizontal agreements between undertakings, which are permitted under the legal provisions, are forms of business collaboration often essential to give rise to significant economic advantages which ultimately benefit the market and consumers. they are normally cooperative activities which do not involve any coordination of the parties' competitive behaviour on the market and therefore have no effect on competition, but which promote gains which would not otherwise be possible. they are therefore exempted from the application of article 101 (1) tfeu. this is particularly relevant for the specialisation agreements and for the research and development agreements provided for in regulations (ec) no 2659/2000 and (ec) no 2658/2000, which the commission now proposes to review. at a time when europe needs to invest in r & d and must focus on innovation, it is essential that the legal conditions are created for the creation of the necessary synergies between companies operating in the market, in compliance with competition laws.
in writing. − according to articles 101 (1) and (3), 103 (1) and 105 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, horizontal forms of collaboration between undertakings are permitted provided that such agreements contribute to improving the production or distribution of products or to promoting technical or economic progress and that there are benefits for consumers. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that, given the significant legislative changes since the adoption of the regulations and the horizontal guidelines and the subsequent experience that the commission has gained with the application of these rules, it is necessary to codify a new set of rules issued by the commission which takes into account the case law of the european court of justice in this area.
in writing. − the review of the rules applicable to horizontal cooperation agreements between companies is very important to increase business collaboration, particularly at the level of r&d, thus helping to create synergies for further development in all areas of cooperation. we must, however, be careful that this type of cooperation is not designed to disregard the rules of sound competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the review of the competition rules on horizontal cooperation, which acknowledges the commission's work, in particular the transparency of its work with the european parliament and the open way in which this review process was initiated, seeking to hear all the parties concerned. when legislation is revised, legal certainty must be considered, and in line with the resolution, i believe it is essential that, once the new definitive regulatory framework has been adopted, a summary and new frequently asked questions be drawn up to explain this framework in detail to all market participants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights. intellectual property rights make a decisive contribution to innovation and their respect is therefore essential.
author. - madam president, i think we can all agree that the attempted execution of tarik aziz, former prime minister of the saddam hussein regime, is clearly a tragic farce. this is a man who's already serving a life sentence, plus a whole lot more. we do not disagree on this, but i think we cannot speak out and condemn this attempt at execution without at the same time mentioning the more than 900 death sentences that have already been handed down by the iraqi presidential council. it is our obligation to give equal weight to the more well-known and the less well-known that compels us to do so. we also agree, of course, with the condemnation of islamic terrorism against christian communities, but we cannot ignore the 30 000 innocent detainees who have been held in iraq as a result of the military occupation, nor the way in which it has provoked strife and internal problems in iraqi society. the problem with this resolution is that it tastes a little. so my group has its own resolution.
iraq, the iraqis inherited and suffered a horrendous ordeal at the hands of dictator saddam hussein. then, since 2003, under the foreign military occupation of a power that should be an example of human rights, they have experienced terrible human rights violations, including arrests, abductions, extrajudicial killings. it was particularly important in this regard that president talabani said that he would refuse to sign the execution order for tarik aziz because he is a socialist and a humanist. i think it is very important that we say in this parliament that we are against the death penalty for anyone, whatever their religion, and that we are not just fighting for the abolition of the death penalty that was imposed on tarik aziz because he is a christian. of course, like all my colleagues, i absolutely reject the attacks on the christian community in iraq, a community which is part of the iraqi cultural tradition and which the iraqis, more than anyone else, know how to preserve and know what is in their interest. but we must not forget that those who have suffered most in iraq from terrorist and sectarian violence are indeed muslims, whether shiites, sunnis or otherwise. it is more important than ever that we in the european union commit ourselves to the relationship with iraq and discuss this issue, and in particular the need to abolish the death penalty, with our colleagues in the iraqi parliament.
author. - let us start with the elections. as we know, and as has already been said here in this house, the elections were held in a climate of fear and intimidation, they were a real farce which did not even serve to give the military junta a civilian veneer, many people were excluded from voting, thousands of burmese - 1,000 according to the military junta's own generals - took refuge in thailand, where more than 100,000 burmese are already living and where there are increased risks of armed conflict along the burmese borders. this is a reminder that the release of aung san suu kyi obviously fills us with joy and hope of being with this remarkable woman, as has already been mentioned, and of welcoming her here in parliament, but it cannot distract our attention from what is most important in burma, namely the release of an entire people and more than 2 000 political prisoners, and from a general climate of intimidation and fear. the european union must not therefore give up. we need a lot of focus, a lot of concentration and a lot of stubbornness, we absolutely need to not let ourselves get lazy. in this respect, i think it is worth saying that some member states must be more firm in defending human rights and, above all, more consistent. the business that many member states still do in burma - i remind you, for example, that the oil company total has holdings in burma that give 7% of the budget to the burmese junta - must now be brought into line with our european union human rights commitments. the european parliament will remain focused and united on this cause, and i hope that the european commission and the member states can remain united as well.
president. - the tornado which struck portugal last tuesday caused enormous damage in the tomar region. unfortunately, these types of natural disasters are becoming more and more frequent. it is important to provide emergency mechanisms that allow rapid intervention in aid to the affected populations. the eu's role is of fundamental importance, as it has instruments such as the solidarity fund, which are intended to respond to such problems. however, it is essential that these mechanisms are activated and applied in a rapid, flexible and simplified manner. i therefore call on the commission and the council to make the solidarity fund flexible so that it can be applied with due diligence in this and other similar cases.
recent eurostat data show that portugal is one of the countries with the highest precariousness of work: 22% of workers are in precarious situations, while the european union average is 13.5%. women and young people are the most affected, with the unemployment rate for young people under 25 exceeding 23% and poverty in portugal reaching 18%, and increasingly poor workers who do not earn enough to get out of poverty. so how can we understand the unacceptable pressure that the european commission is putting on the portuguese government to change the labour law and make it even easier to dismiss people? what is needed is to strengthen support for the creation of jobs with rights and living wages.
despite the austerity budgets, despite the international monetary fund, despite the stabilisation fund, despite an economic coordination mechanism based on sanctions, the attack on the euro continues through the speculative attack on the sovereign debts of several countries. it is necessary to recognize that the error can only be in the political decisions that have been taken. every time mrs merkel and mr sarkozy speculate in public, speculators immediately thank them and speculate accordingly. every time they say no to eurobonds in particular, of course, the speculators are grateful because they are grateful for the price, the price of this speculation is the division in europe. it is a europe without solidarity, a europe where the peripheral countries are becoming more and more peripheral. and that needs to change, mr president.
after another climate change conference, i think, to be honest with ourselves, the strongest thing we can say is that it was better than copenhagen because we got some results and some progress. it was better because a compromise was reached which was put back under the un umbrella. it was better because the european union came out of cancun better and because it was a much more transparent process than the previous one. but this alone cannot be a consolation and we must recognize that it is still too little. there is a basis for continuing to work, but we must also recognize that this basis, while positive, remains a basis of promise. governments have to do much more to meet the needs of citizens, to meet the needs of a real crisis with real victims. i am glad we will discuss this in greater depth here tomorrow. it is no use celebrating the universal declaration of human rights if we continue to ignore them, and we should already know that the market does not solve everything and that it is time to put people first.
a few days ago, in the u.s. congress, rep. ron paul asked a crucial question: when a war starts with a lie, which is more important, keeping it secret or letting the citizens know the truth? i welcome the concern of our distinguished colleague on the other side of the atlantic about the wikileaks case. there are secrets that are justified and necessary. the problem is when secrecy becomes the rule rather than the exception, and in the last few years, we've seen a culture of secrecy grow that does nothing but increase, escape democratic control, and now fiercely defend their privileges, as we saw in the reactions of some governments and companies to the wikileaks case. after political pressure, amazon, visa, mastercard and even a swiss bank have all closed or cut business with wikileaks. a french minister demanded that france no longer accept this site on french territory. ladies and gentlemen, these pressures have no legal cover. trust is a two-way street and governments can only demand trust from citizens when they are willing to give trust to citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we always support in this parliament proposals which seek to respond to the need for proper management of migration flows in relation to legal immigration and in relation to irregular or clandestine immigration. this proposal also fits into this dynamic and seeks to introduce amendments to the 2004 regulation on the establishment of a network of immigration liaison officers, which mr díaz de mera has already referred to with great authority, in order to create the necessary synergies between this important instrument of cooperation and the frontex agency which would only be established later. it is the responsibility of liaison officers as representatives of member states deployed abroad, currently in more than 130 third countries, to maintain the necessary contacts with the authorities of the host country in order to contribute to preventing and combating illegal immigration, to the return of illegal immigrants and to the management of legal immigration. since frontex has no permanent representation outside the union, there is no doubt about the importance of this cooperation. the agency should, on the basis of the information collected by liaison officers, carry out risk analyses and strengthen operational cooperation between member states and third countries. information obtained by these networks will be forwarded via econet, a secure information and coordination network to the services of the member states responsible for managing migration flows, while allowing these networks to benefit from the funds available under the external borders fund. as mr díaz de mera is probably wondering why i have not mentioned him yet, i would like to stress that he has done an excellent job, not only for the quality and the commitment he has put into these dossiers, as he always does, but also for the efforts he has made to obtain this important agreement at first reading.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr agustín díaz de mera, for the excellent work, as has been said here on several occasions, of cooperation and dialogue which he has done with us throughout this whole process, particularly on the thorny question of whether the references we have in this text, as in others, are to irregular or illegal immigrants. the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, has taken a very constructive and dynamic approach to this. it is also true that the treaties and the council's own position did not allow it to go further in this respect and to come up with a designation that was more comprehensive and also technically more correct for cases of undocumented and irregular immigrants. i think what we are dealing with here, as we are dealing with in many of the discussions we have had about immigration in the european parliament, is that we have a repressive immigration policy, which has its building more or less finished, nothing is missing: frontex, schengen and even the role of the liaison officers, the immigration liaison officers, which is now being amended, as it was before, serve primarily a border control function, a repressive function. and we all know in this parliament, on the left and also increasingly on the right, that only the repressive half of an immigration policy is no immigration policy at all because a proper immigration policy also needs the legal half of legal immigration channels. i think that if we were to vote for mr díaz de mera's report as such, with the ideas he has put forward, i would be quite frankly in favour. we are voting on the compromise with the council at first reading, and i do not think we have gone as far as we could have gone.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: the commission is not going to be able to do this. are we all facing the deal we'd like? the answer is no. many of us in this parliament would have liked to have gone further, but i think this is a step in the right direction, mainly for two reasons: firstly, because we are creating a new instrument which aims to benefit third country nationals who want to immigrate to the territory of the member states by granting them a set of rights; secondly, as véronique mathieu has already said, because of the political message we are sending abroad, opposing the idea of a 'fortress' europe which can only pass repressive and security-enhancing measures, while at the same time responding to the concerns expressed in the stockholm programme to create flexible immigration policies to support the economic development of the union. i agree with mrs mathieu that it is necessary and urgent to reach an agreement with the council, even if i share the view of sophie in't veld that many member states do not want to talk about a common immigration policy, but that is also why it is important to take this first step. let 's be clear: the abolition of internal borders between member states has made it essential to harmonise national legislation on the conditions of admission and residence of third-country nationals, to ensure that they are treated equally and to ensure that they are guaranteed rights and obligations comparable to those of citizens of the european union. and i believe that the creation of a single application procedure leading to a combined residence and work permit will be more effective for both migrants and employers, and will also make it easier to check the legality of their residence and employment.
it is true, mr president, that in this proposal for a directive we are talking about very different situations, including, for example, immigrant workers from third countries, seasonal workers and posted workers, but the truth is that, under the pretext of a single regulation, what is at stake is in practice the legalization of social dumping, the reinforcement of precariousness at work and the aggravation of discrimination. we therefore say that this proposal for a directive cannot be adopted. what is needed is to improve the rights of those who work in the european union, whether they are posted workers or seasonal workers, full-time workers or migrant workers. their rights must be recognised, including the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. the commission should endeavour to secure the adoption and ratification of this convention by all member states.
mr president, this debate comes at a timely moment when economic, social and territorial disparities within the european union are worsening in a worrying way: inequalities between countries and regions and inequalities within countries are growing. it is the obvious failure of the objective of cohesion. cohesion policy does not exist separately from other policies: it is influenced and is profoundly influenced by the prevailing political orientations and the macroeconomic framework. attacks on workers' wages and rights, the dismantling and degradation of public services, the attack on the social functions of the state and cuts in public investment are an integral part of the economic and monetary policies that the european union has been imposing on the member states. these are policies which lead to increased poverty and inequality and which are moving us away from the goal of cohesion every day. the cohesion policy has not, it is true, compensated for the impacts and imbalances generated by the integration into the single market and economic and monetary union of economies with very different degrees of development. the inadequacy of the funds devoted to cohesion and the inconsistency of macroeconomic policies, which are obsessively focused on nominal convergence but make real convergence impossible, are unavoidable causes that must be corrected by increasing budgetary allocations for cohesion and by profoundly changing macroeconomic policies. support for production and the development of the productive capacities of each country and region, the full exploitation of its endogenous potential through the sustainable use of its resources, the preservation of the environment and the creation of jobs with rights, the strengthening of social protection systems and the strengthening of public services are strategic drivers essential for effective economic, social and territorial cohesion.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr luhan and mr mănescu on the remarkable work they have done in their reports. both are important contributions to the ongoing discussion on the new cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. today, more than ever, the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion is essential to the affirmation of the european union's competitiveness on a global scale. this will only be achieved if we are aware that it is only by strengthening and developing the regional dimension that we can have a europe that is cohesive at home and competitive abroad. i would like to highlight three points in particular which i consider to be key: firstly, decentralisation, which means that local and regional authorities, especially those with legislative powers, are more involved and contribute to a better implementation of cohesion policy. to encourage member states to invite regional and local authorities to participate in the negotiations on the future of the structural funds on an equal footing with national authorities and representatives. finally, the role of regional authorities in the preparation, management and implementation of programmes should be strengthened. only in this way, with the greater involvement of these authorities in the whole process, will the principle of subsidiarity be respected. another aspect that i consider crucial is the call for a simpler architecture for the funds after 2013, not as a consequence of the economic crisis, but as a general principle of future cohesion policy, so as to facilitate the absorption of the funds. the great concern underlying the lisbon treaty was to bring europe closer to its citizens. so let us not only do this, but also make your life easier by avoiding unnecessary administrative burdens that are a deterrent to your participation. only then will we be able to achieve the objective of genuine territorial cohesion. only in this way will we reduce the disparities within the european union, which are now markedly contrasted and with a huge gap between rich and poor regions. more participation also means more responsibility and it is this responsibility that must be assumed and shared by all, doing more and better towards a stronger and more competitive europe.
mr president, mr commissioner, recognising the importance of cohesion policy as a contribution to growth and prosperity, and its importance in promoting the balanced development of the regions, recognising that the balanced development of the regions is indispensable to the functioning of the internal market and of the union itself, and recognising that cohesion policy is essential to the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives, recognising that cohesion policy is useful for the environment, for job creation, for training, for the creation of a modern transport network, recognising all these things, it is not acceptable, mr president, commissioner, that the commission should take advantage of these successes of the regions and now also want to turn them into a threat to member states which do not meet the macroeconomic criteria. the regions have not even been involved in these situations, nor do they have any direct responsibilities. and especially since they will be the most affected by the conditionality in the allocation of the structural funds. this is not right, commissioner, and i would like an answer from you.
mr president, as we know, there are still many forms of discrimination in the countries of the european union, and they affect various categories of the population and cultural minorities. but we must not forget a general discrimination against women: discrimination against women persists in different areas, with varying degrees of impact, in the different member states of the european union. women workers continue to have difficulties in accessing employment, continue to have difficulties in advancing in their careers and continue to be victims of the salaries, the discrimination that always hits them. in the european union, it is estimated that women are discriminated against in pay by about 18%. urgent action is therefore needed to combat such discrimination.
madam president, it is important that everyone is committed to the fight against trafficking in human beings, with the aim of eradicating it. we know that this form of modern-day slavery is highly profitable for organized crime syndicates, who practice it in a variety of ways, whether it's through sexual exploitation or forced labor, the illegal trade in human organs or even domestic and other types of black labor. it is therefore necessary to combat effectively these practices, which mainly involve women and increasingly children, by criminalising the perpetrators of such crimes and supporting the victims in breaking their dependence on organised mafias. hence the importance of tackling the causes of this situation, creating situations to lift people out of poverty, promoting policies for the fair redistribution of wealth, ensuring access to essential public services, promoting the creation of more jobs with rights and with wages that allow people to live with dignity. this is also a path that it is essential to promote here in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate my colleagues edit bauer and anna hedh on the excellent work they have done on this report. human trafficking is a disgrace to our society and requires a strong and coordinated response from all. the organised crime behind sexual exploitation, forced labour, the trade in human organs and other despicable practices must be effectively combated, but above all it must be prevented. what is at stake is the defence of human rights and the protection of the most vulnerable people, in particular women and children. experience has shown that the existing legal framework is not effective enough and that the european union must do more. increased cross-border cooperation, including the effective sharing of information and best practices, is essential. the emphasis in this proposal, well, a victim-centered approach. policies in this area should cover aspects related to social issues and social inclusion, such as the social rehabilitation of the victim.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's shipping fleet is not compromised. disasters of this nature, whether accidental or criminal, know no borders and have the potential to devastate human lives, infrastructure, the environment and public health. the occurrence of such disasters is not remote, as we can see from the recent catastrophe of toxic sludge spilling at a factory in hungary and the wave of packages of explosive substances being sent by post from yemen to various destinations in the united states of america and europe. it is crucial that the european union develops efforts to articulate the necessary cooperation between the civilian and military capabilities and resources of the member states to effectively prevent, detect and respond to attacks or qbrn disasters. this cooperation requires a european mechanism specialised in preparing the response to such crises, in collaboration with a european civil protection force, the creation of which parliament has long recommended. the european union's action plan must therefore be strengthened. the existing framework, adopted by the council in 2009, is weak and is not actually being implemented by all member states. it only takes one weak link for the whole chain of intervention to fail. it is vital to give the european commission a stronger role in monitoring, guiding and coordinating. it is urgent that the plan be implemented in all member states. this report proposes more civil-military cooperation in concerting efforts in the prevention, stress, preparedness and response to disasters with nbrq substances. the european union must commit all member states to putting in place integrated national systems for implementing the plan, and in this respect the nis action plan is an opportunity to put into practice the solidarity clause enshrined in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (floods in madeira, portugal, storm in france). portugal requested assistance from the solidarity fund following the unusual and abnormal rains that in february 2010 caused landslides and floods on the island of madeira, causing serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and agriculture. the floods on the island of madeira, according to the official estimates of the portuguese authorities, caused losses of around eur 1080 million, with the solidarity fund sharing some eur 31 million. i myself have seen in madeira the need for this fund to be more flexible and more expressive in its support, especially for the more remote and insular regions which are often hit by bad weather.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the report allocating eur 31 255 790 from the european union solidarity fund to portugal following the floods in madeira last february. torrential rains that fell on the island of madeira caused chaos and severe material damage, including landslides, collapsed bridges, closed roads, and homes and cars swept away by the floodwaters. the tragedy that struck the island of madeira left 42 people dead and 13 missing. today in the european parliament in strasbourg we have seen a real demonstration of the european solidarity which is one of the most important values of the european project and which must be emphasized.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by agreeing that, in the framework of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, the european union solidarity fund be mobilised to the amount of eur 66 891 540 in commitment and payment appropriations to meet the request made by portugal to respond to a disaster caused by landslides and floods on the island of madeira, and also submitted by france, in relation to a disaster caused by the storm xynthia.
in writing. - i welcome, of course, the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to help the victims of the tragedy in madeira following unusual rainfall. i welcome the competent and continuous effort made by mr nuno teixeira to raise awareness among the european institutions and to justify the necessary support. i reiterate my conviction that the mechanisms must be simplified so that the mobilisation of this solidarity fund can be made more rapidly in the future. emergency aid that arrives too late undermines the union's image of effectiveness and weakens the feeling of european solidarity.
in writing. − portugal requested assistance from the solidarity fund following the unusual and abnormal rains that in february 2010 caused landslides and floods on the island of madeira, causing serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and local agriculture. the portuguese authorities, together with the regional government of madeira, estimated the total direct damage at eur 1,080 million, an amount representing 0,68% of portugal's gni. the same floods caused extensive damage to many homes, farms, roads, and water supply networks. the financial assistance unlocked through the fund will enable the portuguese authorities, and in particular the authorities of the regional government of madeira, to recover part of the expenditure incurred in responding to the emergency situation. it is with a sense of responsibility and a commitment to avoid undue delays in the mobilisation of financial aid to the regions of portugal and france which have been affected by natural disasters that i vote in favour of this report as a whole.
in writing. the european commission proposes to mobilise the solidarity fund for portugal and france, with a total amount of eur 66.891.540 made available, eur 31.255.790 for portugal and eur 35.635.750 for france. portugal requested assistance following the storm in madeira in february 2010, which caused serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and agriculture. france, for its part, requested assistance from the solidarity fund following the storm xynthia, which also hit a significant part of french territory in february 2010, killing 53 people and injuring 80, and causing serious damage to dams and dikes, public and private infrastructure, road and rail networks, agriculture and businesses. i am entirely in favour of this mobilization, even for the importance it has for the autonomous region of madeira, but i cannot help but regret that it is only in december (10 months after the catastrophes that struck the french coast and the island of madeira) that aid is made available. it is urgent to find faster ways of making the solidarity fund mechanism work and we must concentrate our efforts to that end.
in writing. - we naturally voted in favour of this report which proposes the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to cover the enormous damage caused on the island of madeira following the storm that hit the region in february 2010. we would like to make a few points, however. the fund's rules state that 'in situations of major disasters, the community must show solidarity with the population of the affected regions by providing financial assistance to help them to return to normal living conditions in the affected areas.' it also states that this instrument should enable 'actions to be taken quickly and effectively and to contribute rapidly to the mobilisation of the emergency services to meet the immediate needs of the population and to contribute to the short-term reconstruction of the main damaged infrastructure'. the rules and procedures for mobilising the fund have already shown in practice that this principle of rapid aid to the affected populations has not been observed. in this case, it is not until ten months after the disaster that parliament votes to mobilise the fund. we have therefore advocated, and we reiterate here, the need to adapt the rules for mobilising this fund, allowing for more flexible and timely mobilisation, reducing the time between the catastrophe and the availability of funds.
in writing. − the eu is a solidarity space and the eu solidarity fund is part of it . these are essential for helping areas affected by natural disasters, such as the floods in madeira (portugal) and the storm xynthia in france. having verified that both applications fulfil the eligibility criteria of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission has proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund to the amount of eur 31 255 790 for portugal (floods in madeira) and eur 35 635 750 for france (storm xynthia), making a total amount of eur 66 891 540 to be deducted from the ceiling of eur 1000 million in commitment and payment appropriations. i would, however, like to point out the delay in mobilising this kind of support. the process needs to be made less bureaucratic and more rapid in order to respond in time to future disaster situations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by agreeing that, in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, the european union solidarity fund be mobilised in the amount of eur 66.891.540 in commitment and payment appropriations to meet the request made by:- portugal to mobilise the fund in response to a disaster caused by landslides and floods on the island of madeira.- france to mobilise the fund in relation to a disaster caused by the storm xynthia.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the adoption of this report, which provides for the allocation of eur 31 255 790 to portugal to deal with the enormous losses caused by the catastrophe that hit the island of madeira in february 2010, and in this connection i would like to highlight the strong commitment of the portuguese delegation of the psd and, in particular, the work carried out by mr nuno teixeira, who proved to be instrumental in achieving this result.
in writing. − the solidarity fund was set up to express the european union's solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters. in february this year, the region of madeira, where i come from, was hit by a catastrophe caused by landslides and floods. following this tragedy, portugal submitted a request for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in order to respond to it, in particular by repairing infrastructure and rebuilding the affected areas. the french authorities also made a request to mobilise the fund following the xynthia storm. the damage assessed from both disasters totals eur 66 891 540, which will be mobilised shortly after the necessary amendment to the amending budget to make the amount available. the effects of the february disaster were felt immediately and the damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and agricultural production was numerous and severe. however, despite the seriousness of the tragedy that has struck the region, european aid has not been immediate. ten months have passed and, while agreeing with the need to make the whole procedure less time-consuming, i would like to call on you to vote in favour of its being mobilised as soon as possible in the regions concerned.
in writing. - having regard to the opinion of the committee on regional development and the fact that a reduction in the appropriations for payments in the field of energy for the economic recovery is proposed - european wind-grid system - in order to cover the countries affected (portugal and france) by large-scale natural disasters through the solidarity fund, and also stressing the fact that this decision lays down the basic assumptions for the operation of the european solidarity fund, i agree with this report.
in writing. - i welcome, of course, the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to help the victims of the tragedy in madeira following unusual rainfall. i welcome the competent and continuous effort made by mr nuno teixeira to raise awareness among the european institutions and to justify the necessary support. i reiterate my conviction that the mechanisms must be simplified so that the mobilisation of this solidarity fund can be made more rapidly in the future. emergency aid that arrives too late undermines the union's image of effectiveness and weakens the feeling of european solidarity.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 9/2010 has the sole purpose of formally entering the budgetary adjustment resulting from the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in the 2010 budget. having voted in favour of a parallel draft report recommending approval of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for portugal (floods in madeira) and france (storm xynthia), it is with the same sense of responsibility that i vote in favour of this amending budget report which provides for the mobilisation of eur 31 255 790 for portugal and eur 35 635 750 for france, making a total of eur 66 891 540 to be deducted from the ceiling of the fund.
in writing. - despite the importance of investment projects in energy infrastructure, and in particular wind energy, i am in favour of reducing the payment appropriations under budget heading 06 04 14 03, so that these funds are reallocated to payment appropriations of eur 66.891.540 (budget heading 13 06 01), to cover the needs related to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation (com (89) 6 final - doc. c3-0613/90) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (89) 670 final - doc. since the commission considered that the necessary conditions for mobilisation were met (in particular, in the case of madeira, as regards the minimum loss threshold), it should be noted that the community support now available will only cover 2,89% of the total losses of the disaster. as an outermost region, with the constraints that this imposes, and pursuing convergence objectives (despite the harmful changes in this area following the last enlargement), these particular features should be taken into account by strengthening support for the region, either through this fund or other measures. for this reason, when discussing the fund's rules, we proposed that the possibility of increasing financial assistance to the 'cohesion' countries and the 'convergence' regions be considered, introducing an essential cohesion dimension in this problem of support for damage caused by natural disasters, reducing, here too, the disparities between the different regions and eu member states.
in writing. - the present draft budgetary correction makes perfect sense, taking into account the purpose of the funds mobilised through the solidarity fund, in view of the effects of the landslides and severe floods on the island of madeira in portugal and the effects of the storm xynthia in france. having verified that both applications fulfil the eligibility criteria of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission has proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund to the amount of eur 31 255 790 for portugal (floods in madeira) and eur 35 635 750 for france (storm xynthia), making a total amount of eur 66 891 540 to be deducted from the ceiling of eur 1000 million in commitment and payment appropriations. i would, however, like to point out the delay in mobilising this kind of support. the process needs to be made less bureaucratic and more rapid in order to respond in time to future disaster situations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by agreeing that, in the framework of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, the european union solidarity fund be mobilised in the amount of eur 66.891.540 in commitment and payment appropriations to meet the request made by:- portugal to mobilise the fund in response to a disaster caused by landslides and floods on the island of madeira.- france to mobilise the fund in relation to a disaster caused by the storm xynthia.
in writing. - i welcome this proposal for an amending budget, which makes it possible to mobilise the european solidarity fund (esf) for a total amount of eur 66.891.540 in commitment and payment appropriations, of which eur 31.255.790 is intended to meet the request for assistance submitted by portugal following the heavy damage caused by the storm that hit the autonomous region of madeira in february 2010.
in writing. − the purpose of this european parliament document is to approve the council's position on draft amending budget no 9/2010 with a view to making the necessary amendments to mobilise the solidarity fund. the commission considered the disasters in madeira and france to be major and extraordinary disasters respectively, and both requests for the mobilisation of the fund by the respective national authorities were accepted. the european commission may present draft amending budgets in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances, in accordance with the financial regulation. in this context, the commission proposed the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the amount of eur 31 255 790 for portugal and eur 35 635 750 for france, for a total of eur 66 891 540. today, in the name of european solidarity, we are approving a reallocation of the payment appropriations corresponding to this amount from budget line 06041403: energy projects for the recovery of the economy european offshore wind network system, with a view to repairing infrastructure and rebuilding areas affected by disasters. i welcome the measure taken, but i regret the delay in the whole procedure for mobilising the fund in view of the scale of the tragedy that has struck my home region, the autonomous region of madeira.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by slovenia in respect of 2 554 redundancies in the clothing manufacturing company mura, european fashion design, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to accept the european commission's proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. considering that slovenia has submitted a request for assistance concerning 2 554 redundancies in the mura group, european fashion design, which operates in the textile and clothing manufacturing sector, pomurje region (nuts iii region), and also bearing in mind that 7% of the employed population in the pomurje region was working in the mura group and that this region is already below the slovenian average income, i vote overall in favour of this report, i.e. the mobilisation of the egf in favour of slovenia.
in writing. - i think that the frequency with which we have in recent months in this parliament approved the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade, is very significant in the crisis europe is going through. the egf is not the solution to this problem, but it is a significant and important aid. in the present case, the aid is intended to deal with the consequences of 2554 redundancies at mura, european fashion design, a clothing manufacturing company in slovenia, which has been particularly affected by changes in international trade and has been the victim of cheap textile imports.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the intervention plan for slovenia is situated, which concerns 2 554 redundancies at mura, european fashion design, a company active in the clothing sector. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. - each month there is a new round of calls for the globalisation adjustment fund. this time there are eight more requests from four member states: slovenia, germany, poland and spain. several hundred more companies are closing their doors, in a variety of industries, from the automotive to the textile to the retail trade. in total, more than 6,500 workers (6,592) are thrown into unemployment. almost ten thousand, if we add to that those who were here a month ago were also considered. at the time of this approval, we cannot but reiterate here that a break with the neoliberal policies that are causing the visible economic and social disaster in the eu countries is necessary. the palliatives for disaster are necessary, but the causes must be tackled. the proposal we made during the debate on the 2011 budget to create a european programme for employment and sustainable development, allocating 1% of eu gdp, to be complemented by funds from the member states, with a view to real convergence, promoting the potential of each country, the sustainable use of its resources, and focusing on production and the creation of jobs with rights, is now becoming more urgent.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to slovenia, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 2 554 redundancies at mura, european fashion design, a company active in the clothing manufacturing sector.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by slovenia in respect of 2 554 redundancies in the clothing manufacturing company mura, european fashion design, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to accept the european commission's proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by slovenia for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of the 2554 redundancies in the clothing manufacturing company mura, european fashion design, in the period from 21 october 2009 to 20 february 2010, fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a company in a member state in a four-month period'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance from germany concerning 1181 redundancies at the four production sites of the printing machinery manufacturer heidelberger druckmaschinen in baden-württemberg, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to accept the european commission's proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that it should be ensured that the egf individually supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of companies or sectors.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. in view of the fact that germany has submitted a request for assistance concerning 1181 redundancies at the four production sites of the printing machinery manufacturer heidelberger druckmaschinen in baden-württemberg, i am voting in favour of this report as a whole, i.e. the mobilisation of the egf in germany.
in writing. - we are today approving a package of aid of eur 8 308 555 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for germany to deal with the consequences of 1181 redundancies at the four production sites of the printing machinery manufacturing company heidelberger druckmaschinen ag in baden-württemberg. as i have always said, this aid, which is very important to 'relieve the present distress', is not the ultimate solution to the problems affecting european industries, which are not only the result of the economic crisis we are going through but also the need for europe to adapt to a changing world where it is essential to be competitive.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the german intervention plan covers 1181 redundancies at the four production sites of the printing machinery manufacturer heidelberger druckmaschinen in baden-württemberg. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to germany, which has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 1181 redundancies at the four production sites of the company heidelberger druckmaschinen in baden-württemberg, which is active in the printing machinery manufacturing sector.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance from germany concerning 1181 redundancies at the four production sites of the printing machinery manufacturer heidelberger druckmaschinen in baden-württemberg, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to accept the european commission's proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by germany for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 1181 redundancies at the four production sites of the printing machinery manufacturing company heidelberger druckmaschinen in baden-württemberg during the period from 26 january to 26 may 2010 meets all the eligibility criteria laid down by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a company in a member state in a four-month period'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by poland concerning 590 redundancies in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of wielkopolskie, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament, i also agree that the commission, in the context of mobilising the egf, has proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for attention to the fact that the egf was set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. given that poland has submitted a request for assistance concerning 590 redundancies in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the wielkopolskie region, i vote overall in favour of this report, i.e. in favour of mobilising the egf for poland.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis we are experiencing, together with the constant changes in the labour market caused by changes in the structure of international trade, has resulted in numerous victims of unemployment, which is often long-lasting. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to respond to these situations. in this particular case, we are talking about the mobilisation of just over eur 600 000 for poland to support 1104 redundancies in 2 companies in the automotive sector between 1 march 2009 and 30 november 2009. the commission has examined this application and found it to be suitable and to meet the requirements laid down, and i therefore recommend that the application be approved. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this intervention plan for poland is part of this framework and concerns 590 redundancies in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of wielkopolskie. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to poland, which submitted a request for assistance following 590 redundancies in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of wielkopolskie.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by poland concerning 590 redundancies in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of wielkopolskie, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament, i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by poland for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 590 redundancies in two enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii region of wielkopolskie fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in relation to 1154 redundancies in 593 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles) in the nuts ii region of aragon, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that the functioning and added value of the egf should be assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and of several other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, as part of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. given that spain has submitted a request for assistance concerning 1154 redundancies in 593 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the region of aragon, i vote in favour of this report as a whole, i.e. in favour of mobilising the egf for spain.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis we are experiencing, together with the constant changes in the labour market caused by changes in the structure of international trade, has resulted in numerous victims of unemployment, which is often long-lasting. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to respond to these situations. in this particular case, we are talking about the mobilisation of just over €1.5 million for spain to support 1154 redundancies in 593 retail and commercial enterprises between 1 june 2009 and 28 february 2010. the commission has examined this application and found it to be suitable and to meet the requirements laid down, and i therefore recommend that the application be approved. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this intervention plan for spain is part of this framework, and concerns 1154 redundancies in 593 enterprises in division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the aragon region. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 1154 redundancies in 593 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the nuts ii region of aragon.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in relation to 1154 redundancies in 593 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles) in the nuts ii region of aragon, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by spain for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 1154 redundancies in 593 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the nuts ii region of aragon fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in respect of 350 redundancies in 143 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 13 (textile manufacturing) in the nuts ii region of the valencian community, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. given that spain has submitted a request for assistance concerning 350 redundancies in 143 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 13 (textile manufacturing) in the region of the comunidad valenciana, i vote overall in favour of this report, i.e. in favour of mobilising the egf for spain.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis we are experiencing, together with the constant changes in the labour market caused by changes in the structure of international trade, has resulted in numerous victims of unemployment, which is often long-lasting. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to respond to these situations. in this particular case, we are talking about the mobilisation of just over two million euros for spain to support 544 redundancies in 143 textile companies between 13 april 2009 and 12 january 2010. the commission has examined this application and found it to be suitable and to meet the requirements laid down, and i therefore recommend that the application be approved. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this intervention plan for spain is part of this framework, and concerns 350 redundancies in 143 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 13 (textile manufacturing) in the comunidad valenciana at nuts ii level. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to spain, which has submitted requests for assistance in respect of 350 redundancies in 143 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 13 (textile manufacturing) in the nuts ii region of comunidad valenciana.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in respect of 350 redundancies in 143 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 13 (textile manufacturing) in the nuts ii region of the valencian community, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. - the application submitted by spain for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) concerns 544 redundancies (of which 350 are eligible for assistance) in 143 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 13 (textile industries) in the nuts ii region of the valencian community. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in relation to 300 redundancies in 66 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace rev. 2 in the nuts ii region of the comunidad valenciana, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that the functioning and added value of the egf should be assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and of several other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, as part of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. given that spain has submitted a request for assistance concerning 300 redundancies in 66 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace rev. 2 in the region of the comunidad valenciana, i vote overall in favour of this report, i.e. in favour of mobilising the egf for spain.
in writing. - today we are approving the mobilisation of a package of aid totalling eur 1 422 850 from the egf for spain, a country which has been severely affected by the world economic crisis and, in particular, which has seen unemployment rise above the european average. in this case, the aid concerns 528 redundancies in 66 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace rev. 2. i hope that the spanish economy will be able to give an adequate response to the crisis, and the mobilisation of this aid is only part of that response.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the intervention plan for spain is situated, concerning 66 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace rev. 2 in the comunidad valenciana region at nuts ii level. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which submitted a request for assistance in respect of 300 redundancies in 66 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace rev. 2 in the nuts ii region of comunidad valenciana.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in relation to 300 redundancies in 66 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace rev. 2 in the nuts ii region of the comunidad valenciana, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by spain for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 300 cases out of a total of 528 redundancies in 66 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace rev. 2 in the nuts ii region of the valencian community fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in relation to 508 redundancies in the automobile company lear automotive (eeds) spain, s.l. sociedad unipersonal, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that the commission proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons for its approval, in line with parliament's requests.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. given that spain has submitted requests for assistance in relation to 508 redundancies in the lear automotive (eeds) company, which operates in the automotive sector in the region of catalonia, i vote in favour of this report as a whole, that is to say, the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain.
in writing. - we are today once again approving the mobilisation of a package of aid totalling eur 382 200 from the egf to the automotive sector in spain. in this case, the aid concerns 515 redundancies at lear automotive (eeds) spain, s.l. sociedad unipersonal, which operates in the automotive sector in catalonia. before the crisis, spain's main exports were cars. however, the fall in demand for cars in the european union as a result of the crisis threatens to put even more jobs at risk not only in spain but throughout the union, and it is important that the mobilisation of the edf can effectively help this important sector for the european economy.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this intervention plan for spain, which concerns 508 redundancies at lear automotive (eeds) spain, s.l. sociedad unipersonal, an automobile company, is part of this framework. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to spain, which has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 508 redundancies in the automotive company lear automotive (eeds) spain, s.l. sociedad unipersonal.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by spain in relation to 508 redundancies in the automobile company lear automotive (eeds) spain, s.l. sociedad unipersonal, i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by spain for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 508 redundancies at lear automotive (eeds) spain, s.l. sociedad unipersonal, an automotive company, meets all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a company in a member state in a four-month period'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by poland in connection with 189 redundancies in the company h. cegielski-poznań and four of its suppliers, which are active in the manufacture of marine diesel engines, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission's proposal, as amended by parliament, i also agree that it should be ensured that the egf individually supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of companies or sectors.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. given that poland has submitted a request for assistance concerning 189 redundancies in the company h. cegielski-poznań s.a. which is active in the manufacture of diesel engines used in ships and power stations, and in four companies supplying it, i vote overall in favour of this report, i.e. in favour of mobilising the egf for poland.
in writing. - today we are approving a package of eur 114,250 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for poland to deal with the consequences of 658 redundancies at the four production sites of the company h. cegielski-poznań and four of its suppliers, which manufacture marine diesel engines in the city of poznań and the district of poznań. as i have always said, this aid, which is very important to 'relieve the present distress', is not the ultimate solution to the problems affecting european industries, which are not only the result of the economic crisis we are going through but also the need for europe to adapt to a changing world where it is essential to be competitive.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this intervention plan for poland, which concerns 189 redundancies in the company h. cegielski-poznań and four of its suppliers, whose activities are in the manufacture of marine diesel engines, is part of this framework. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to poland, which submitted a request for assistance in connection with 189 redundancies in the company h. cegielski-poznań and four of its suppliers, which are active in the manufacture of marine diesel engines.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by poland in connection with 189 redundancies in the company h. cegielski-poznań and four of its suppliers, which are active in the manufacture of marine diesel engines, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission's proposal, as amended by parliament, i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by poland for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 189 cases out of a total of 658 redundancies in h. cegielski-poznán and four of its suppliers, which are active in the manufacture of marine diesel engines, in the period from 1 september 2009 to 1 january 2010, fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a period of four months in an undertaking in a member state, including workers made redundant by their suppliers or downstream producers'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. − given that this is a proposal dating back to 2003, which aims to include refugees in long-term resident status after five years of continuous legal status, it is regrettable that this inclusion proposal has not been taken into account at this stage. with the amendment proposals made by the european parliament in april 2008, which provide, among other measures, for the calculation of five years of residence after the procedures for obtaining residence status, and the lack of unanimity in the council, this new proposal will directly benefit beneficiaries of international protection who have resided in the eu territory for more than five years and who do not yet have resident status.
in writing. − this initiative followed the 2007 proposal for a directive on the extension of long-term resident status to refugees and persons under subsidiary protection, which never achieved the unanimity in the council that was needed before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it aims to provide beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally resident in a member state for at least five years with legal certainty as to their right of residence in a member state and to confer on them rights comparable to those of eu nationals. the compromise reached is of the utmost importance not only because it allows a high level of protection and legal certainty for refugees in the eu, which will also ensure better integration, but also because they will finally no longer be discriminated against against against against all other third country nationals. it is also an important political signal, as the adoption of this first initiative of the set of 6 pieces of legislation is not only a first step, but also reflects the constructive approach that guides the three institutions in establishing a common asylum system by 2012.
in writing. − this proposal aims to extend the scope of council directive 2003/109/ec on the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents and beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally resident for more than five years in the territory of a member state. this measure, by treating beneficiaries of international protection equally in all member states, puts an end to the inequalities which have existed between states and will allow them to reside in a state other than the one in which they have been recognised, which was not the case until now. these measures are important precisely because we are building a common area of security and freedom in europe, where those who are recognised as entitled to international protection should enjoy equivalent rights in the various member states.
in writing. − the adoption of this report is intended to extend the scope of council directive 2003/109/ec on the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents and beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally resident for more than five years in a member state. it will now be possible to treat beneficiaries of international protection equally in all member states, who will be able to reside in a state other than the one in which they have been recognised, which was not the case until now. the importance of these measures is directly linked to the aim of creating a common area of security and freedom in europe, where those who are recognised as entitled to international protection should enjoy equivalent rights in all member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree to extend the scope of directive 2003/109/ec to beneficiaries of international protection who are already legally residing in the territory of a member state for a period of five years, by granting them long-term resident status. i would like to emphasize the policy of inclusion which this proposal entails. long-term resident status creates the opportunity to integrate these individuals, including through language training, which should be provided by the member state to long-term residents. in the same vein, i support the rapporteur's proposal to encourage member states to develop training programmes on the structural laws and fundamental values of the member state of residence, as well as on the general principles of democracy, human rights and individual rights and duties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that, in order to ensure equal treatment for all third-country nationals and to promote economic and social cohesion in the european union, it is fully justified to extend long-term resident status to beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally resident in the territory of a member state for five years.
in writing. - the european union's action must be centred on the principles of good governance and respect for human rights and democracy. in its relations with the south caucasus region in particular, the eu should accompany the region in its economic and trade development, security, stability, prosperity and conflict resolution. the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas in the case of georgia will contribute to the eu's enlarged neighbourhood policy by facilitating cooperation and the movement of persons between the two contracting parties. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − this agreement is undoubtedly a significant step forward in eu-georgia relations. following the strengthening of bilateral cooperation with the eu and the accession of this country to the council of europe and the european convention on human rights, this agreement represents a further step towards improving the administration of justice and increasing the level of respect for freedoms in this country. it is hoped that this agreement will provide an incentive for georgia to undertake the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice. at the same time it should facilitate travel and personal contacts between the citizens of the two contracting parties, which is a key condition for ensuring the development of economic, humanitarian, cultural and other relations. i hope that the necessary information campaigns will also be carried out in georgia to inform its citizens of the entry into force of this visa facilitation scheme and of the new possibilities they will be able to benefit from.
in writing. - the growing rapprochement of georgia with the european union, as expressed by several recent acts, is to be welcomed. the visa facilitation agreement is another important step towards their european integration. the free movement of persons is one of the most important rights that the union gives to its citizens and therefore i welcome cooperation between the union and georgia. the fight against illegal immigration and the incentives for reform in the area of security, freedom and justice can bear fruit if there is a spirit of commitment on both sides.
in writing. - the efforts to bring georgia closer to the european union are well known, as evidenced by a number of recent acts. this agreement on the simplification of the issuance of visas is thus another important step towards its european integration. the free movement of persons is one of the most important rights that the union gives to its citizens and that is why this cooperation between the union and georgia is very important. it is, however, essential to continue the fight against illegal immigration and to maintain the incentives for reforms in the area of security, freedom and justice in georgia.
in writing. − the process of deepening relations between the european union and the countries of the south caucasus, including georgia, is vital for a sound, coherent and effective neighbourhood policy. the conclusion of an agreement on visa facilitation has made a full contribution to this objective. the proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the agreement includes standard elements of the european union visa facilitation agreements, setting out the time limits for the visa decision, the fees and exemptions, the required documentation, as well as a joint declaration on cooperation and travel documents. i support the proposal to include a european union declaration on simplification for family members, responding to specific requests from georgia, in order to facilitate the mobility of a large number of persons who have family ties with georgian citizens legally residing in the territories of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement because i consider that it, together with the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, constitutes very significant progress in eu-georgia relations, marking an important step on the path to european integration and providing an incentive for georgia to pursue the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the establishment of an eu rapid response capacity to the various large-scale disasters (natural or man-made) outside the european union in recent years because i consider it important to increase the effectiveness of the eu's disaster response capacity. a comprehensive and integrated eu response with a preventive action plan is increasingly needed. the catastrophe in haiti has shown the need for profound reforms by the european union in its rapid and efficient response to emergencies and disasters. i believe that a rapid and effective response will also require greater political will on the part of the various parties involved. it is also necessary to restructure competences to allow for greater coherence and coordination of the european union's response to disasters, and i consider it essential to put into practice some of the concrete proposals contained in the barnier report of 2006 on the creation of a european civil protection force.
in writing. - in view of the increasing frequency and intensity of disasters with serious human, economic, social and environmental consequences, the european parliament's recommendation on the establishment of a rapid eu response to disasters is of particular importance, and i voted in favour of it as it sets out the key aspects to be taken into account. among these, it stresses that cooperation between member states can provide operational and financial added value, and recognises that there should be an integrated approach to disaster management which also includes prevention, preparedness, disaster management and post-disaster reconstruction. i also think it is important to improve the coordination and efficiency of the european response, in particular through a european civil protection force.
in writing. - the recent natural disasters that have struck the world highlight the urgent need for rapid and effective response mechanisms to mitigate the adverse social, economic and cultural effects on the affected regions. following on from previous ep resolutions, of which i would like to highlight the most recent ones on the earthquake in haiti and on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, this house is once again dealing with this matter. i generally support mrs zanicchi's report and i would stress at once that the future of the eu's disaster response capacity must be based on instruments available at european and international level, avoiding duplication, optimising resources and allowing the european civil protection force to build on the existing community civil protection mechanism. i welcome the fact that, following the tragedy in haiti, there has been greater effort and political will to strengthen the coherence and coordination between the civil protection and humanitarian aid dimensions, and the work done by the parties involved to achieve this. i regret, however, that the previous proposals of the european parliament have not yet been fully implemented, in particular those concerning the barnier report.
in writing. − responding quickly to natural disasters and catastrophes is essential as it is in the first hours after they have occurred that most people can be saved. in addition, in recent years we have seen a proliferation of natural and man-made disasters, which require a high degree of technical rigour and coordination of the different means of responding to disasters. the creation of a community civil protection mechanism is a first step, but, like the rapporteur, i believe that more needs to be done in this field. coordination, cooperation for a rapid and effective response to disasters by the european union can be successful, as was the case with the earthquake in haiti last january. and it needs to be.
in writing. - the occurrence of catastrophes can and should be prevented. factors such as intensive land use, disorderly urban growth, rural neglect and desertification, among others, are causing an increase in vulnerability to the occurrence of disasters. the promotion of a balanced use of land and economic and social development in harmony with nature is thus a key element in disaster prevention. this is where the eu's efforts should be intensified, following up the recommendations made in a recent report by this parliament and reinforcing this dimension in its cooperation policy. as regards the response to catastrophes which cannot be avoided, there is of course also room for strengthening cooperation, mutual assistance and coordination between the different member states and with third countries. the best ways and means of achieving this should be the result of a debate involving the different national civil protection authorities and others, with respect for the sovereignty of each state. this should be the path the report points to, not the 'immediate constitution of an eu civil protection force' or the use of military means in responding to humanitarian aid situations, which the report admits can operate outside the aegis and coordination of the un.
in writing. − the creation of a rapid response capacity to natural disasters and catastrophes is essential because it is in the first hours after they have occurred that the most people can be saved. on the other hand, we have unfortunately seen the multiplication of both natural and man-made disasters, which require a great deal of rapid intervention capacity. the creation of a community civil protection mechanism is thus very important but there is still much to be done in this area.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in fact, the analysis of the lessons learned in haiti clearly shows the need for further reforms of the eu's disaster response capacity, as i had already stated in my opinion on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. a rapid and effective response in emergency situations is essential to ensure eu solidarity with either one of its member states or third countries, and requires strong political will from the different decision-making bodies. the efforts made to strengthen coherence and coordination between civil protection and the various dimensions of humanitarian aid are acknowledged. however, concrete steps must be taken towards the creation of a european civil protection force, as my opinion on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters also states. i agree with the rapporteur. it is time to make further progress in this area, in particular by putting into practice the concrete proposals of the barnier 2006 report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that it is essential to make efforts and implement measures to strengthen the eu's disaster response capacity by promoting its efficiency, coordination and visibility.
in writing. − the record of natural and man-made disasters has been increasing not only in number but also in intensity and extent, and consequently in their human, socioeconomic and environmental effects. this is forcing the european union to rethink its response strategy in terms of prevention, management and assistance, in order to make it more concerted and operational. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is based on the recent disaster in haiti and calls for the creation of a european union civil protection force capable of creating synergies between the member states and the european institutions in order to prevent and assist third countries, in particular developing countries, when they are struck by a disaster. this humanitarian initiative is a representative of the european union's solidarity in its external dimension. however, i think it is extremely important that this initiative should also be designed to coordinate and manage disasters within the european union. i am reminded of the catastrophe which devastated the island of madeira last february, and i therefore consider it essential to set up this civil protection force together with the optimisation of existing resources.
in writing. − since the implementation of the markets in financial instruments directive (mfid), european financial markets have undergone unprecedented changes both as a result of the directive and as a result of external factors linked to the crisis, and the desired effects of regulation have not been achieved. the application of fdm has led to a fragmentation of markets which has encouraged the exponential emergence of high-frequency trading strategies. the market has adapted to the use of unregulated trading platforms (dark pools) to trade large orders in private order-crossing networks set up by intermediary brokers and to the use of the derogations provided for in the directive for such operations (opaque transactions), which were previously carried out through regulated markets. rules should be applied to these technological developments to ensure their effective regulation and transparency, in order to avoid the creation of systemic risks that jeopardise the overall functioning of markets.
in writing. - the european parliament continues to approve reports on partial aspects of financial regulation, without ever going to the bottom of the matter. of course, it is better to have some regulation of financial transactions carried out in private brokers and/or financial companies. but that's not the point. the report merely advocates greater regulation of trading venues, citing the need for 'increased transparency and security in financial instrument markets' and 'equal treatment' between multilateral trading venues and regulated markets. the essential question here is the persistence of the same system of speculation, touching only the form of that speculation and not the most important part, that is, its content. we, for our part, continue to advocate the end of the derivatives market and tax havens and effective control by political power over financial power, and not the other way around. until that happens, the rest is just make-up operations.
in writing. − with the recent implementation of the markets in financial instruments directive (mfid), european financial markets have undergone major changes, both as a result of the directive and other factors related to the crisis, and the desired effects of the mfid approval have not been achieved. the market has adapted to the use of unregulated trading platforms (dark pools) to trade large orders in private order-crossing networks set up by intermediary brokers and to the use of the derogations provided for in the directive for such operations, which were previously carried out through regulated markets. it is therefore essential to start applying rules to these technological developments to ensure that they are effectively regulated and transparent, so that in the future we do not create systemic risks that again jeopardise the overall functioning of the markets.
in writing. - supporting the call on the commission to strengthen market infrastructures for all trading platforms and clearing systems so that they can cope with future risks through greater transparency, resilience and regulatory oversight of all aggregated transactions, i voted in favour of parliament's resolution to approve:- multilateral trading platforms to be subject to the same level of supervision and thus regulated in a comparable manner;- investment firms, which provide portfolio management services and operate in the context of portfolio management, to benefit from the best execution conditions by investment firms; - the commission assesses the effects of the establishment of a minimum order size for all opaque transactions;- firms implementing high frequency trading strategies are regulated to ensure that they have reliable control mechanisms and standards with permanent regulatory reviews of the algorithms they use.
in writing. − i agree that the commission should assess the effects of setting a minimum order size for all opaque transactions and whether its strict enforcement could be ensured in order to maintain an adequate trading flow on platforms operating in a transparent manner in favour of price formation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential that the eu be prepared for the ncd risks which give a new dimension to terrorist attacks, accidents and natural disasters, since they know no borders and are likely to cause numerous victims. the eu's response to this danger should not be limited to post-emergency intervention programmes but should be pre-programmed at the stage of handling these materials, their storage, access limitation and control. i think it is essential that the response to an incident be accompanied by extensive cooperation between different authorities in a member state (civil protection, military, police, etc.) as well as between the national authorities of different member states and european bodies, i.e. i think a coordinated and comprehensive approach is essential. the commission presented the eu's action plan on cbrn in june 2009 for a period of three years (2010-2012), with the following components: prevention, detection, preparedness and response. in this connection, i consider it essential to recognise the importance of each of these aspects in ensuring that risk assessment studies, reactions and control measures are carried out correctly.
in writing. - it is essential that we adopt an effective action plan to deal with the existing and ongoing risk of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear disasters on eu territory. whether accidental or intentional, they represent a serious threat with the potential to have devastating and far-reaching effects on the safety, well-being and health of european citizens, the environment, cultural heritage and basic infrastructure. fortunately, the number of incidents, including terrorist acts, related to qbrn matters has been quite low. this action plan demonstrates the need for a global and cross-border approach, as the effects of a brn disaster know no borders and should focus on the various aspects of prevention, detection, preparedness and response. it should thus ensure effective interaction of national and eu initiatives to address nbrq risks and prepare the response and mitigation capacity. like the rapporteur, ana gomes, i have no doubt that we need to adopt an eu action plan, but i regret that the commission has not been more ambitious, because the proposed action plan shows a lack of strength and coherence in some areas.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, including by providing the necessary financial support to the eu's efforts to combat terrorism. we are increasingly dealing with diffuse and unconventional threats and as such europe needs to have an appropriate strategy for their prevention, detection and protection in order to be able to guarantee the safety and health of europeans. that is the direction the commission should take and that is what i hope.
in writing. - chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) risks give a new dimension to terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and pandemics, as they know no borders and are likely to cause numerous casualties. the eu cbrn action plan was presented by the commission in june 2009 and amended by the council in november. the plan will be implemented over the next three years (2010-2012) and has four main components: prevention, detection, preparedness and response. but the amendments introduced by the council do away with the action plan and make the measures envisaged less binding, as well as the monitoring and control of their implementation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which seeks to give the commission a stronger regulatory role, as i believe that only in this way will it be possible to fill the gaps in the efforts made by the various member states in this field.
in writing. - if there were a real concern for the security of the npt, there would be no insistence on the maintenance of a very powerful nuclear arsenal of some eu countries, which could be used in military attacks, nor would there be any permission to maintain the stationing of us nuclear weapons in several european countries - an action which goes against one of the three pillars of the npt which it euphemistically claims to defend. the report makes no reference to decisions such as the recent decision by the united kingdom to sell nuclear technology to india, a non-signatory to the non-proliferation treaty, or the decision by france and germany to cooperate in maintaining their nuclear arsenals, citing a hypocritical 'cost rationalization'. nor is there any mention of the support of the major eu and nato powers for the project of installing anti-missile systems in europe and of nato's decision to remain a 'nuclear alliance'. in a period of intensifying crisis of capitalism, what this report shows is that it is not declarations of intent that count but concrete actions. and these demonstrate that militarism continues to assert itself as a resource for capitalist economic globalization.
in writing. - i think the eu should be prepared to deal with any attack or accident that could jeopardise the safety and health of its citizens. therefore, the qbrn action plan is necessary for the prevention or response to any type of threat or accident registered in the eu territory the current threats are diverse, hence the complexity of this matter, which now has its own mechanism to deal with the most diverse situations. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on enhancing chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) safety in the european union, an action plan for the chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear safety of the european union in line with the epp group's argument, stressing the need for an eu-wide approach to prevent and detect attacks and/or accidents, as the threat of cbrn attacks is 'global', and the focus on enhancing chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear safety is necessary in the prevention of terrorist attacks. i also welcome the commitment made by the two largest political groups to relax the requirement for the entire chemical industry to substitute high-risk materials regardless of the associated risks.
in writing. − attacks with chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) materials pose a serious threat to people living in the eu, and the need to implement an effective action plan to ensure proper coordination between the approaches and initiatives of the different member states and the eu in preventing, detecting, preparing for and responding to cbrn incidents is recognised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and consider it of great importance at a time of economic and financial crisis, when it is necessary to ensure the harmonious development of all regions within the eu. i agree with the general purpose of a tripartite agreement between the eu, the member states and the regions, whereby modernization, interconnected infrastructure and support for investment plans and development projects according to the specific characteristics of each region are essential. i also believe that continued investment in infrastructure is essential in many european regions, particularly in the south and east. in view of the different levels of decentralisation of european regions, a balance must be found for a horizontal approach between different levels of government and between all areas of activity. efforts to modernise and reform the administrative structures of the regions, in addition to high-quality technical assistance from the commission, are essential to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of eu investments. simplification of procedures and the allocation of structural funds and the cohesion fund accessible to all stakeholders is essential, ensuring on the one hand the participation of all actors in society and on the other hand a better implementation on the ground of eu programmes, instruments and policies.
in writing. − the decentralisation of member states' powers is based on the sharing of responsibility between the different levels of government. the powers of regional and local authorities in implementing community policies are thus being strengthened. i agree with the adoption of this resolution as it focuses on the specificity of local and regional challenges, drawing attention to the need to consider integrated approaches which take account of the special characteristics of regions, such as geographical and natural disadvantages, depopulation and the special characteristics of the outermost regions, but which also look at the different administrative arrangements existing in the various member states. these approaches should also allow for the coordination of the interests of the different actors involved in order to facilitate governance at various levels. the resolution also draws attention to the complexity of procedures and control of funding applications, which distances potential beneficiaries from cohesion policy, and to the obligation to consult the public as a way of legitimising the decision-making process. at the same time, i agree that the strengthening of power at regional and local level must be accompanied by a reaffirmation of the commission's supervisory role and by strong coordination between cohesion policy and structural policy.
in writing. − the cohesion fund represents more than one third of the total eu budget and its ultimate objective is to reduce disparities in the levels of development of the various regions by directing resources in particular towards growth and employment. however, in recent days the financial times has been publishing an investigation into the fate of the cohesion fund and the scenario described is very worrying: the use of the fund for purposes totally different from those for which it was intended. i therefore believe it is essential to strengthen the commission's control procedures for the use and allocation of the cohesion funds by strengthening the mechanisms for good governance.
in writing. - we agree that criteria of effectiveness, efficiency, rigor and transparency must be guaranteed 'at all stages of the programming and implementation of the structural funds'. we acknowledge that the 'ongoing simplification of the financial regulation and the structural funds' may be indispensable in removing some of the barriers currently existing to access to the funds, particularly by less developed regions. as regards the principle of co-financing, while recognising the importance of the national authorities taking responsibility for the implementation of cohesion policy, we believe that in the face of the deep crisis we are experiencing, which particularly affects some member states and their regions, the rules on co-financing should be made more flexible, allowing for a higher rate of absorption of the resources allocated to cohesion, in particular by lowering the co-financing rate to 10% for all the structural funds. some aspects of the report continue to arouse our disagreement and opposition. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of economic and monetary union. the same applies to the uncritical attachment to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, a strategy guided by liberalization, privatisation and labour flexibility, a path that is clearly contrary to the objectives of cohesion.
in writing. - given that the regions have clear geographical and natural disadvantages, such as depopulation, among others, i consider this measure to be essential to make cohesion policy more effective. it is essential that there is greater rigour in the allocation of cohesion funds, so that asymmetries between eu states and regions are reduced. this will result in a process with greater transparency, less bureaucracy, more equity in the distribution of funds and consequently less disparity in the level of competitiveness. hence my vote.
in writing. − the principle of subnational subsidiarity, introduced by the treaty of lisbon, gives substance to the ambition to involve the regions in the european decision-making process. the increase in contacts with the european commission implies the principles of good governance in regional policy and the adoption of other assistance and control procedures. this report, which i voted for, deals with the powers and role of regional and local authorities in the process of implementing cohesion policies. regional authorities can now participate more directly and more actively in the decision-making process, whether in designing and implementing policies or in establishing themselves as genuine partners in achieving the community's objectives. i welcome this important step for governance, which responds to the european parliament's repeated calls for increased participation of subnational entities in the design and implementation of european policies.
in writing. - i believe that governance in the field of regional policy needs to be improved in order to make the management of the structural funds and cohesion policy not only more effective but also more balanced. i agree with the rapporteur when she calls for the commission to have a more forward-looking policy for results, focusing above all on the quality of assistance and the development of strategic projects. i also believe that the european networks for the exchange of good practice should strengthen their initiatives and thus help to ensure that these procedures are effectively applied.
in writing. - good governance of european regional policy is essential to its success. governance at several levels needs to be implemented in order to enhance the participation of all entities in the legislative process. in this respect, it is essential to increase the involvement of regional and local authorities in the pre-legislative phase and also in the implementation phase of policies. i would like to stress that the lisbon treaty recognises subnational subsidiarity, not only in the context of regional policy, but also in a horizontal way, that is, in all european policies. i believe that greater and better involvement of the various decision-making levels will help to achieve the objective of territorial cohesion, based on an integrated approach. however, a bottom-up approach must be pursued, as it is the local and regional level entities that best understand the characteristics and problems of the regions. the europe 2020 territorial compact for regional and local authorities could contribute to enhancing their contribution to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the principles of partnership and co-financing will help to increase the accountability of the entities and the european commission should be given a stronger supervisory role, in particular through an improved control and audit system.
in writing. - i consider that parliament's position on the amendments to the 2004 council regulation on the establishment of a network of immigration liaison officers is a contribution to the proper management of migration flows, not only legal but also in relation to irregular or clandestine immigration. in fact, synergies and operational cooperation between member states and third countries, in particular through liaison officers, need to be strengthened. i also consider it essential to analyse the activities of networks of immigration liaison officers in regions and/or countries of particular interest to the european union, in particular the situation of these regions and/or countries with regard to illegal immigration and human rights issues. the commission should in turn develop recommendations on the development of networks of immigration liaison officers.
in writing. − following the formal establishment of the frontex agency, it is necessary to optimise the union's resources in the field of borders. in this regard, it is imperative to establish closer cooperation between the networks of immigration liaison officers and the frontex agency. the use of the competences of liaison officers and of the frontex agency, based on an exchange of information obtained by the networks of liaison officers through iconet (secure information and coordination network for member states' services responsible for managing migration flows), will allow for enhanced risk analysis by the frontex agency as well as enhanced cooperation on legal and illegal immigration.
in writing. - with the creation of the frontex agency, it has become necessary to optimise the union's resources in the field of borders. therefore, closer cooperation between the various networks of immigration liaison officers and the agency needs to be initiated. the exchange of information and expertise between liaison officers and the agency, based on an exchange of information through iconet (secure information and coordination network for member states' services responsible for managing migration flows), will lead to better risk analysis by frontex and to greater control of legal and illegal immigration.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 377/2004 on the establishment of a network of immigration liaison officers introduces changes aimed at drawing on the knowledge and experience of liaison officers for the benefit of frontex and vice versa. indeed, at the time of the establishment of this liaison officers' network, frontex was not yet effectively implemented. i agree with the objectives of the amendment, namely to make use of the knowledge and experience of liaison officers and frontex; to exploit the information obtained through the networks of liaison officers, via iconet (secure information and coordination network of the member states - 'migration management services'); to allow access to the external borders fund to promote the creation of networks of liaison officers and to simplify their operation; and finally to speed up the system for submitting half-yearly activity reports.
in writing. - i believe that it is essential to amend the regulation so that there can be a real platform for the exchange of information between immigration liaison officers and the frontex agency. the exchange of knowledge will certainly add value to the work of both.
in writing. - the proposal is about introducing a single application procedure for work and residence permits and defining a common set of rights for all third country nationals legally residing and working in the eu. this implies common rules for all member states, which aims to put an end to the current differences in the regimes in the various eu countries and to make the process of legalising workers faster, more uniform and more transparent throughout the union. if, on the one hand, legal labour migration, especially skilled labour, helps to combat illegal work and can help the competitiveness of the economy and overcome existing shortcomings, on the other hand we must not forget that, in a period of crisis and economic vulnerability with rising unemployment, labour migration policy must be flexible, as the commission advocates, but it must also be sustainable and reasonable.
in writing. - we consider it very important that the majority of the ep has rejected this proposal for a directive on the 'single application procedure for residence and treatment' as the ep document, which has already been negotiated with the council, served the interests of large companies and economic groups exclusively. what they wanted was to have a foreign labor force that they could exploit with low wages and few rights, pushing social dumping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in a way, they wanted to take back the principle of the country of origin (the infamous bolkestein directive) which was rejected after many struggles by the workers. the european parliament has once again heard the struggles and positions of workers and trade unions in the various member states, which shows that the struggle is worthwhile. the portuguese workers, too, with their general strike of 24 november, contributed to this positive result. but it is necessary to keep watch.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it aimed to eliminate differences between member states in procedures for work and residence and in access to rights for third-country nationals legally working in the eu. it was a step forward for two reasons: firstly, because we are creating a new instrument which aims to benefit third-country nationals who want to immigrate to the territory of the member states by granting them a set of rights; secondly, because of the political message we are sending abroad, opposing the idea of a closed europe which can only approve repressive and security-enhancing measures, while at the same time responding to the concerns expressed in the stockholm programme to create flexible immigration policies to support the economic development of the union. hence my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which was not adopted in the final vote. i did so because i believe that monitoring migration in the european union is fundamental to a responsible reception policy in the member states. the best way to combat illegal immigration and illegal work is to develop a balanced policy of legal immigration in order to welcome immigrants in accordance with the needs of the labour market in the host state. in a time of no economic growth it is important not to create false expectations of inclusion and not to foster policies that promote situations of deprivation. the proposal to complete a single application to the host country authorities, applying for both a work and a residence visa, would be in line with this concern.
in writing. − the european union must prepare for the demographic challenges it will face. the issues of labour migration are relevant to the competitiveness and vitality of economies. they also require balanced treatment and special consideration.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive on the european protection order aims to prevent crime and takes account of the fact that, although member states provide protection for victims and that it no longer has any effect beyond national borders, a european-wide early warning and prevention mechanism is needed. taking into account the recommendations launched by the stockholm programme and the procedures resulting from the implementation of the lisbon treaty, which allows for reports to be provided on a cross-cutting basis, as well as the first council proposal for a european directive on protection for victims of 5 january 2010, i agree with a broad approach to include victims of various types of crime, with the amendments providing for arrangements for revoking the protection order, ensuring continuity of legal protection, limiting the grounds for refusal of the protection order, setting a deadline for the execution of the order and clarifying the position of victims when moving from one member state to another.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft directive on the 'european protection decision' which aims to protect victims of crime throughout the european union. the aim of this initiative is to introduce a mechanism of judicial and police cooperation between member states so that victims of crime who benefit from a protection measure in one member state do not have to start the whole judicial procedure for obtaining protection measures again, and so that they are also protected if they decide to reside or remain in another eu country. the european protection decision will be issued at the request of the protected person and should be addressed not only to women victims of domestic violence, who are the vast majority, but also to any victims, such as victims of trafficking in human beings, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, honour killings, incest, gender-based violence, witnesses, victims of terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. - i support this resolution because i consider it essential to enable victims of violence to benefit from crime prevention and protection measures throughout the european union, i.e. that this protection is not restricted to one member state but that it allows them to reside or remain in other countries of the european union. this measure should apply to victims of trafficking in human beings, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, honour killings, incest, gender-based violence, witnesses, victims of terrorism and victims of organised crime. in this respect, it will be necessary to overcome the fact that the judicial systems of the member states are different.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive aims to address a gap in the current legislation on victims, which does not address the issue of crime prevention and the need for a rapidly and effectively functioning alert and prevention mechanism for the defence of victims throughout europe. the creation of a european protection order should thus become an important instrument for the protection of victims of any form of violence across the borders of the member states in order to avoid victims having to start the whole judicial procedure for obtaining protection measures over again when moving to another member state. while we have been passing legislation on the civil and procedural rights of suspects in the eu, we cannot forget the civil and procedural rights of victims, who are undoubtedly the most vulnerable and most unprotected. the adoption of this directive is an important step for the benefit of victims, but i hope that the commission can go further and present as soon as possible a comprehensive and more complete legislative package on victims.
in writing. − the legal protection of victims of crime is fundamental to the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice. that is why i agree, despite some differences, with the objectives of this proposal, which seek to improve the current legal framework in the following respects: (i) improving the conditions on which the revocation of the european protection order is based; (ii) continuity in legal defence; (iii) reducing the grounds for non-recognition or rejection of the european protection order; (iv) the time limits for the decision to take effect; and (v) specification of the victim's travelling situation. the legal protection of victims of crime is fundamental to the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice. that is why i agree, despite some differences, with the objectives of this proposal, which seek to improve the current legal framework in the following respects: (i) improving the conditions on which the revocation of the european protection order is based; (ii) continuity in legal defence; (iii) reducing the grounds for non-recognition or rejection of the european protection order; (iv) the time limits for the decision to take effect; and (v) specification of the victim's travelling situation.
in writing. − this directive is based on the application of protection measures to support persons against criminal acts, whenever the life of a person or his physical, psychological or sexual integrity is endangered. protection measures exist in all eu member states, but they cease to have effect when someone crosses the country's borders. the 'european protection decision' aims to ensure that protection afforded to a person in one member state is maintained and continued in any other member state to which the person moves or has moved. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. but the text still needs to be confirmed by a qualified majority of member states in the council. although much of the protection measures are aimed at women victims of domestic violence, the new rules should cover any victims: this directive applies to protection measures aimed at protecting all victims, not just victims of gender-based violence, taking into account the specificities of each type of crime committed, the adopted report states.
in writing. − it is the most basic principle of justice that a victim of crime who enjoys a protection measure in one member state should also be protected if he or she decides to reside or remain in another eu country. it is with this in mind that we have adopted these new rules today. any victim, not just victims of domestic violence, should be able to benefit from the european protection order. protection measures exist in all eu member states, but they cease to have effect when someone crosses the country's borders. the 'european protection order' aims to ensure that the protection afforded to a person in one member state is maintained and continued in any other member state to which the person moves or has moved, irrespective of the crime of which he or she has been the victim.
in writing. − this report is in line with the already adopted stockholm action plan, the european union's initiative to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice. apart from the problems with the legal basis of these amendments, i decided to vote in favour of them because i consider the measures to protect victims or potential victims of crime to be very positive. the possibility of extending the scope of a judicial protection order from one member state (the issuing state) to the member state where the protected person intends to move (the executing state) is a significant step forward in the effective creation of an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union, an ideal which i share.
in writing. - i am very pleased with the council directive, since it aims to create a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. however, i share the concerns raised by the rapporteurs, particularly with regard to the technical gaps and the call for attention to the differences between the judicial systems of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive because i regard it as a key element in extending the fight against trafficking in human beings. the eu response at this level now considers exploitation of prostitution or other forms of sexual exploitation, labour exploitation such as forced labour and begging, organ harvesting, cases of illegal adoption, forced marriage, drug trafficking, or even exploitation of a person for petty theft or theft. i believe that this document strengthens the prevention of crime, in particular by means of criminal offences, sanctions and confiscation of property or permanent closure of establishments used for the practice of crime in the case of traffickers in human beings. on the other hand, i believe that there is also greater support and assistance for victims, such as adequate housing, legal advice and material, psychological and medical assistance.
in writing. − human trafficking is the modern form of slavery and the second most lucrative activity for organised crime worldwide. this directive is the first legal instrument adopted in this area, with the new possibilities opened up by the treaty of lisbon, and it creates a common approach to the fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of its victims, filling a serious gap in the legal framework we had. a balanced compromise was reached, creating an instrument capable of dealing more effectively with this type of crime, creating more stringent measures and increasing the level of penalties with prison sentences of 5 to 10 years and confiscation of proceeds of crime. it also reinforces the prevention and protection of victims, with special attention to children and other groups at risk. i also support the proposal to create a coordinator for the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu, although we must avoid any overlapping of functions with other existing bodies, such as europol.
in writing. - human trafficking is today, for the victims, an inhuman and modern form of slavery and, for those responsible - criminal organisations operating in the areas of prostitution and sexual exploitation, illegal adoption, forced labour, illegal immigration and illegal organ trade - a highly profitable activity. since several european countries are the 'destination' of these networks, the initiative to create a common regime for preventing and combating trafficking in human beings at european level, which is in line with the motion for a resolution of this parliament voted on 10 february 2010, is to be welcomed.
in writing. − trafficking in human beings is a serious violation of human rights and represents a significant source of revenue for organised crime. the importance of this form of modern slavery is impressive, but its true extent is unknown. the lisbon treaty has strengthened the european union's action in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, including the fight against trafficking in human beings. the european parliament, by becoming a co-legislator in this area, will have an important role to play here. i welcome the approval of the measures adopted in this report on the need to collect information on the number of people trafficked, on the sex, age and nationality of the victims, as well as on the way the trafficking is processed, the type of services to which the victims have been referred, the number of traffickers arrested, prosecuted and convicted, and on the national referral mechanisms to the national asylum authorities.
in writing. - we know that it is not enough to adopt legal instruments to combat trafficking in human beings and to protect victims, although the fight to eradicate trafficking in human beings must be seen as a priority in the fight for respect for human rights. it takes political will to put them into practice. but, above all in this area, it is also essential to act in the area of prevention, which requires other economic and social policies and implies an end to capitalist exploitation and neoliberal policies. we need to create the conditions to lift people out of poverty by promoting policies of fair redistribution of wealth, ensuring access to essential public services, promoting the creation of more jobs with rights and with wages that allow people to live with dignity. the vote on this document is therefore only one step in a long and hard struggle which must continue to put an end to trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - recent estimates by the international labour organisation have revealed that at least 2.45 million people worldwide are in forced labour as a result of trafficking in human beings. this is a phenomenon that has been evolving in recent years and is also present in european countries. the commission is therefore of the opinion that this is a scourge which must be vigorously combated in the eu, without neglecting its support and protection of the victims. hence my vote.
in writing. − a policy to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings is essential within the european union. i share the aim of creating tougher rules in this area, creating a hostile environment for traffickers, greater protection for victims and more rigorous prevention. i also agree with the european parliament's proposal to set up an anti-trafficking coordinator. i also welcome the proposed sanctions, in particular the prison sentence of up to 10 years and the possibility of 'confiscating the assets' of the criminal, as well as the council's proposal to urge the member states to transfer the confiscated assets to the assistance and protection of victims, including compensation for them.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the protection of the rights of the child. the european parliament, by becoming a co-legislator in this area, has a very important role to play here. i believe that, in line with the resolution adopted on 10 february 2010, the approach to combating trafficking in human beings must take a global view of the phenomenon and focus on the defence of human rights.
in writing. - the european union's action must focus on the principles of good governance and respect for human rights and democracy. in its relations with the south caucasus region in particular, the eu should accompany the region in its economic and trade development, security, stability, prosperity and conflict resolution. in this connection, i voted in favour of the agreement with georgia on the readmission of persons residing without authorization, considering it a contribution to the achievement of these objectives.
in writing. − the 2009 prague summit joint declaration on the eastern partnership stressed the importance of promoting citizens' mobility in a safe environment, based on visa facilitation and readmission agreements. this readmission agreement thus constitutes the necessary complement to the conclusion of the visa facilitation agreement with georgia, which would necessarily have to be accompanied by an improvement in the security conditions necessary to combat cross-border crime and illegal migration. i hope that on the basis of this agreement and in a spirit of common commitment, the eu and georgia can effectively combat illegal immigration, while at the same time contributing to the development of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and civil society in that country. in view of the results of the eu-georgia human rights dialogue held this year and the fact that georgia has ratified a number of important international conventions on the protection of fundamental rights, and is a member of the council of europe and a partner country in the eastern partnership, which is based on respect for the principles of international law and fundamental values, i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - the growing rapprochement of georgia with the european union, as expressed by several recent acts, is to be welcomed. the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation is an important stimulus to closer relations between georgia, its neighbours and the european union, and to the fight against illegal immigration. the incentives for reform in the area of security, freedom and justice can bear fruit if there is a spirit of commitment on both sides.
in writing. - the efforts to bring georgia closer to the european union are well known, as evidenced by a number of recent acts. this agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation is essential to stimulate relations between georgia, its neighbours and the european union, as well as to the difficult fight against illegal immigration. it is, however, essential that the incentives for reforms in the area of security, freedom and justice in georgia are maintained.
in writing. − the process of deepening relations between the european union and the countries of the south caucasus, including georgia, is vital for a sound, coherent and effective neighbourhood policy. i support the agreement between the european union and georgia on the readmission of persons without residence permit. i would like to highlight the following positive measures: the readmission obligations laid down in the agreement are developed in a fully reciprocal manner, covering nationals themselves as well as third-country nationals and stateless persons. the obligation to readmit own nationals also includes former nationals who have renounced, lost or been deprived of their nationality without having acquired the nationality of another state. the readmission obligation in relation to nationals also covers family members (spouses and minor or unmarried children), irrespective of their nationality, who do not have a right of residence in the requesting state. the so-called 'fast track' procedure is agreed for persons intercepted in the 'border region', i.e. within an area extending up to 5 kilometres from seaports, including customs zones and international airports of the member states or georgia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, considering that it, together with the agreement on visa facilitation, constitutes very significant progress in eu-georgia relations, marking an important step on the path to european integration and providing an incentive for georgia to pursue the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the principles set out in this report, reinforcing the idea that the european union can only be globally competitive if it mobilizes the convergence of its regions and its member states. i agree that despite progress, regional disparities need to be reduced to strengthen the internal market and strategy 2020, which can only have tangible results if the starting point of all regions is taken into account. while i agree that many regions still need investment in infrastructure and accessibility, i also stress the importance of investment in research and innovation, and the involvement of all levels of government and private actors is key to this in order to improve the absorption and application of funds. the commission's clear concept of partnership is needed to implement this idea and community support for the competitiveness of smes needs to be reviewed and consolidated.
in writing. − the union's cohesion policy has proved essential in reducing the development gaps between the various european regions. horizontal and vertical coordination between the different levels of governance is necessary to achieve common development standards and economic, social and territorial cohesion. support for research, innovation and education is a key measure to ensure an inclusive labour market, which should be accompanied by policies at regional level. the active role of regional and local authorities is crucial to ensure greater economic competitiveness in the global market.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty establishes as one of its founding values the promotion of economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu and solidarity between member states (article 3 tfeu). the main objective of cohesion policy is to promote balanced development among the 271 different regions of the eu by reducing the disparity between the levels of development of these regions. particular attention shall be paid to the least favoured regions, as well as to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition, regions with severe and permanent natural or demographic constraints and island, cross-border and mountain regions. in this respect, i have advocated the need to align cohesion policy with the eu 2020 strategic objectives and to promote transparency in the allocation of funds. in my view, all information on the approval and implementation of cohesion policy fund projects by nuts should be made available in real time, in as much detail as possible (e.g. implementation by nuts 3 should be presented where this designation exists), on a website accessible to the general public. this is what i am advocating in my opinion attached to the cohesion policy report on the implementation of the 2007-13 programmes.
in writing. - the reality of the european union today is the most vivid and complete refutation of the report's assertion that cohesion policy has effectively responded to the socioeconomic difficulties generated by the crisis. another idea runs through the report: the association of cohesion policy with the so-called 'eu 2020 strategy'. it is well known that the eu 2020 strategy, which is the successor to the old lisbon strategy, follows the same political line of liberalisation, privatisation and the relaxation of labour laws. these guidelines, which have been pursued, do not contribute to cohesion but, on the contrary, lead to an increase in disparities between countries and regions and within each country. the redistributive function of the community budget - essential to the implementation of the principle of cohesion - is seriously compromised by its meagreness. in addition, the report ignores the costs to the eu's most vulnerable economies of integration into the single market, economic and monetary union and the liberalisation and deregulation of international trade. the development of production in each country and region, the sustainable use of resources and the preservation of the environment are strategic drivers for the economic development of each country, as are the creation of jobs with rights, the strengthening of the public service network and the social functions of the state.
in writing. − it is through a strong cohesion policy that the union has been able to reduce the development gaps between the various european regions. it is essential to continue to ensure coordination between all levels of governance in order to achieve the eu's development objectives and economic, social and territorial cohesion. support for research, innovation and education is a key measure to ensure a labour market for all. everyone must play their part in ensuring greater economic competitiveness on the global market.
in writing. - this report is the result of the initiative of the epp group in the course of the debate on the future of cohesion and regional policy. the strengthening of territorial, social and economic cohesion in the european union is one of the necessary guidelines to be adopted as a contribution to global competitiveness. i fully agree with the fundamental aim of this report to highlight the role that cohesion policy plays in reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, creating new jobs, increasing growth and building infrastructure. territorial and social cohesion must be at the heart of the architecture of a new policy aimed at ensuring sustainable growth and increased competitiveness on a global scale.
in writing. − the european union's cohesion policy is crucial to enabling regions to meet the challenges of the new global context. by supporting development, by enhancing local and regional specificities and by ensuring that the living standards of the citizens of the union are brought closer together, we are consolidating the european project. however, alongside policies and measures at regional level, there is a need to strengthen support for research, development and innovation, as well as the development of education and skills needed by citizens to ensure an inclusive labour market.
in writing. - economic, social and territorial cohesion is a necessary but not sufficient condition for ensuring global competitiveness. european cohesion policy aims to reduce regional disparities, taking into account the impact of global challenges such as climate change, demographic change, energy and biodiversity protection issues, as well as the new challenges arising from the economic and financial crisis. i therefore support the text proposed by the rapporteur, my colleague in the committee on regional development, and reiterate the idea that cohesion and competitiveness are not contradictory or incompatible, but have elements of complementarity. competitiveness within the european union can only be achieved through sustainable economic growth, and cohesion policy therefore contributes to the successful achievement of the eu 2020 objectives and to responding to societal and economic challenges. the regional dimension must not be forgotten, but rather be given greater weight, either by involving regional and local authorities more closely or by enhancing the role of urban and rural areas, because only by promoting regional competitiveness can we achieve strong global competitiveness.
mr president, mr president of the commission, i will not ask you to look at the problems of american diplomacy, or to comment on the strengths and weaknesses of computer networks, or to comment on freedom of information, or even to comment on the shameful calls for the death of assange. i'm here to tell you that we have no right to ignore information that has come to light. i asked the chairmen of the committee on civil liberties and human rights to review the inquiry which this parliament conducted in 2007 into the activities of the cia in europe, and which i had the honour of chairing. i paid tribute to him at the time: the barroso i commission collaborated and helped with remarkable transparency, quite unlike the council, which omitted and lied in its dealings with this parliament. my question to you is very simple: is the barroso commission once again prepared to cooperate in full transparency with the european parliament?
mr president, the publication of american diplomatic correspondence, classified by wikileaks and respected international media, is only possible because it is based on a colossal failure in the american security system, by an excessive extension of the distribution circuit from the state department to the department of defense. what consequences do you think this failure may have for the transatlantic relationship, particularly in terms of the sharing of information in the diplomatic and intelligence fields? and what steps are being taken to strengthen the security of inter-european communications networks, to make the european external action service, including the coreu network, work, and to ensure security against cyber attacks?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the adoption of the draft budget for 2011 brings to an end a negotiating process that has been disrupted. first, a word about the budget itself. it is the result of the imposition of increases by governments, which were residual increases. the proposal put forward by the governments, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, falls well below the limits agreed when the financial perspectives for the period 2007 to 2013 were negotiated. my group has challenged this view because we do not agree with continuity budgets in times of exception, we do not agree with budgets incapable of tackling the social crisis into which austerity policies have plunged our countries. and that would be enough to prevent us from voting on this budget. but underfunding has another consequence: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now about the future: the majority of those who will be voting for this budget were hoping at least that this budget would not be repeated in 2012 and 2013, but nothing is less certain. despite our criticisms, my group has followed parliament's positions throughout the impasse in order to try to avoid this real risk. but the final compromise is a weak compromise. in 2012, i guarantee you, we will see the revised and expanded version of the discussion we had this year because a minority of governments, with the uk at the head, consider the current european budgets excessive: they want less, they don't want more. and those same governments also want to reduce flexibility. these are the governments that love sanctions and hate solidarity, these are the governments that want hyper-austerity and not social progress. that is why this europe, the europe which refuses to issue european bonds, the europe which refuses to tax financial transactions, is a europe which is destroying the european project itself and we are not giving in to that europe and that is why we cannot vote on this budget.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has shown a great sense of responsibility in adopting this budget. in fact, in the face of the economic, financial and social crisis which is holding us back, it would be bad for the european union and its citizens if there were no budget for 2011. no one would understand that the union institutions would ask for broad agreements in the budgets of the member states and themselves would not be able to reach minimum consensus for their budgets. however, i recognise that the 2011 budget, while not bad, could be much better. the need for unanimity on the part of the council on certain matters made negotiations difficult. they are a harbinger, a forerunner of the difficulties which the council will face in reaching agreement on the next multiannual financial framework and on the new own resources which, as we know, require unanimity on the part of the council. i would like to highlight the excellent work of sidonia as rapporteur, and also of mrs trüpel, the efforts of the belgian presidency and the behaviour of the commission. the priorities we have set are set out in this budget, and i would like to highlight the increase in funding for youth, education and innovation, and research. i would also like to highlight the preparatory action, your first eures job, which will make it possible to increase the mobility of young people in the european union in the field of employment. i myself worked on this proposal and i hope that once the legal basis is in place, this preparatory action will start a programme with a large budget. the agreement reached that the commission will present, by the end of september 2011 at the latest, updated figures on the situation and estimates for the appropriations for cohesion policy and rural development, with a possible increase for these appropriations, is also welcome.
i also want to thank you for the work that has been done. it is certainly time to take stock, but we all know that it is time to make commitments, serious commitments, and many important things have already been said here and the list of tasks we have to deal with is very large, it is enormous! important commitments have come out of cancun, but the truth is that none of them will be formalized before next year's conference in south africa. we have a year ahead of us with a lot of work to do, as has also been mentioned. i wanted to emphasize the fact that the rights of indigenous peoples and the most affected peoples have been integrated, because it is a commitment that must be taken seriously and taken seriously. we cannot allow the poorest to always be the ones paying the most, because the environmental and climate crisis is a survival crisis for all of us and it is an issue that involves all of us. i would also like to say that in terms of ambition, as has already been said here, we must be more ambitious, as we have been in the past. we have to get back to 30% on emissions reductions, and there is no reason why we should not do so, just as we have to do on temperature and global warming. we can be more ambitious and take measures in the medium and long term. to be a european citizen, it is not enough to declare it, we must demonstrate it, and it is time because this is not a path that i believe can be taken in a state of fear.
it has already been said here that while the expectations for copenhagen were initially very high, the expectations for cancun were not very ambitious. so copenhagen was considered a failure and cancun was considered a breakthrough. but there is another difference in favour of cancun, which is also the result of the good work done by the mexican presidency, which did everything to make the conference a success. the european union has done its job and contributed to the progress made. the two degrees celsius limit must be confirmed, the green fund must be set up to support adaptation in developing countries and the fight against deforestation must also be stopped. i would like to stress what has also been mentioned here, which is the re-establishment of confidence in multilateralism and the possibility of obtaining a binding international agreement on climate change, which must be next year in durban and we must make an effort to achieve this.
the apparent drop in expectations we are witnessing ahead of the conference should not justify overly optimistic speeches about its results, much less considering the conference a success. if there is any consistency in the criteria for analysis, we must recognize that the results were, as expected, meager. where is the replacement for the kyoto protocol that was absolutely necessary a year ago? where are the reduction targets within the ranges proposed by the ipcc? the european union itself is still outside this range, the united states has targets of 3 to 4% reduction compared to the 1990 levels that had already led to copenhagen. where is the serious discussion about the ineffectiveness and perversity of market instruments such as the carbon market, about flexibility mechanisms such as the clean development mechanism, about hot air and all the other juggling that serves more to open up good business prospects for some than to actually achieve reduction targets? these are the questions we are leaving here at a time when, by the way, a third of the period that has been defined as being a fast start has already passed.
in writing. i congratulate the cancun conference presidency on the transparent negotiations in such a complex process. even if i could go further, this deal seems the best possible deal at the moment. the process of extending the kyoto protocol is still open and that is a positive thing. there will be a lot of pressure in durban next year as the only binding agreement on climate change expires, but it is very important that the agreement reached in copenhagen is now an official un document supported by all countries except bolivia. i welcome the fact that many of the socialist positions advocated here in the ep have been introduced in the text, such as the creation of a 'global green fund' to help developing countries adapt to climate change and mitigate its effects. i also welcome all the countries that have agreed to keep the more ambitious 1.5 degrees on the table for the next summit. that's a very important signal, and the next step is to make sure that that's reflected in the co2 reduction targets.
in writing. i have been following the international climate negotiations for some 15 years and i am particularly happy with the agreements reached in cancún. the decisions adopted represent a real step forward in the negotiations. the main elements of the copenhagen accord are now under the aegis of the un. the united nations has regained its credibility as a forum for the formulation of multilateral climate agreements. mexico has promoted a participatory and transparent conference. the eu has taken up its leadership role. i would like to emphasize the efficient conduct of the work by the european commission and the belgian presidency. there have been significant advances in technology, in forestry and adaptation. i particularly welcome the creation of the climate fund. based on the results of cancún, it will now be necessary to work hard for a successful durban conference in 2011.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i too would like to begin by saying that i think it is timely that a proposal for a revision of the energy efficiency action plan has been tabled and if there were any doubts, i think the debate we are having here today would have cleared them up. energy efficiency policy is absolutely fundamental in a number of sectors, from buildings to energy infrastructure, information and communication technologies, transport, financing issues, all these issues and more, and all other sectors. it is essential that we have coordinated and articulated policies, otherwise we cannot achieve our objectives. just as energy efficiency policy is fundamental to our success in combating climate change, as has already been said, so is the reduction of emissions to which we must respond. we cannot have a discourse on the one hand, advocating the reduction of emissions, and have another discourse, as here, on energy efficiency, saying that it is not possible. i would therefore like to mention only a few points which i consider to be fundamental to this debate. first, it is important to set binding targets. as already mentioned, the situation of keeping to voluntary criteria has only brought us to the situation we are in now: we cannot set binding targets because it will be impossible to achieve 20 percent energy efficiency by 2020 and tell our citizens that it was a vain promise and that nothing will happen, because we have only achieved 9 percent. i think that is an unacceptable and contradictory argument in itself because if we are not going to achieve 20% energy efficiency, it is precisely because we have not set binding targets for it. because the targets have that effect, they have the effect of motivating policies, they have the effect of motivating projects. if we do not want to do this, we are being cowards and cannot rely on goodwill. we must, unfortunately, rely on political will in this case. i hope that tomorrow the political will will be to set that 20 percent energy efficiency target by 2020, not only because if we meet it, it would create a million jobs, new jobs, and we are in a situation where we cannot waste job creation. what seems to be happening here with this failure to make a common commitment is the same as what is happening in the field of economic policy at european level. the european union is incapable of having an economic policy for job creation. it also shows itself incapable of having a common policy on energy efficiency. i hope that this is not the case, i hope that we will achieve this not only in this sector but also in the building sector, and i sincerely hope that tomorrow we will be able to give not only a coordinated and articulated response, but also a response to the crisis we are living in.
mr president, the reality is that it is not enough to adopt an energy efficiency action plan. the results of the 2006 plan need to be assessed, policies need to be put in place to help achieve the targets, and the means of increasing energy efficiency need to be diversified. the argument of the crisis cannot be used as an excuse for not meeting the 20% target by 2020 or for finding solutions to the serious problem of energy poverty. it is important to spread the positive experiences in some countries, not to forget china and the united states, and to focus on financing measures to increase energy efficiency in buildings, social housing, transport and industry. the necessary funds should be entered in the community budget to support the member states and families in the most difficult situations. energy efficiency also increases employment, it also reduces poverty, it is also a factor of progress and social development. let's bet on it.
mr president, commissioner, energy efficiency is crucial to increase security of supply, improve air quality, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the competitiveness of our society. energy efficiency means doing more with less. this report proposes an ambitious vision for energy efficiency through, for example, the introduction of individual targets and positive incentives. important elements are introduced in the modernisation of energy infrastructures such as smart grids, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, the use of ict and the development of scientific research in the field of energy. this report stresses the need to double the funds for scientific research into technological development and demonstration in the energy field. in the area of financing, the report also encourages the use of structural funds for energy efficiency and that this be a priority in the eu budget after 2013. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, on the excellent work he has done, on the balance he has struck, and i would like to invite everyone to support this important report.
mr president, commissioner, you have heard a very clear message from this parliament, a call for the commission to act, to intervene. the commission is asked to stop limiting itself to the minimum possible consensus between states, which is the same as saying that the commission must stop limiting itself to the will to act of the most powerful. the commission must assume its duty and its obligation to take the initiative. i regret to say that the conclusions we anticipate for the next summit will not produce a solution, especially because the mechanism for intervention that is envisaged requires the unanimity of all the member states and we need a european dimension and not a dimension that allows all kinds of perversities and controls by countries over each other. on the other hand, revising the treaty is like opening a pandora's box at this moment, and by the way, i would like you to answer a question: will the new facility be able to buy sovereign debt securities? commissioner, we need to look at the background and the commission cannot ignore the ongoing debate on eurobonds or eurobonds and leave unanswered the initiatives that have been taken by various actors in the meantime, namely juncker, mario monti, some members of this parliament and think tanks. the commission must put forward a proposal and must be able to defend it. finally, a final note: the eurozone does not have a global problem, it has a global problem, but it is concentrated in its insufficient growth and in uneven growth within it. where are the means that must appear alongside those of economic governance and penalisation to effectively promote and deliver strategy 2020?
madam president, the first point i would like to make clear here, and which it is important that we emphasize in this parliament, is that contrary to what sometimes seems to be read in the press and in the statements of some european leaders, the euro as a currency has been fundamental in responding to the current crisis. without the euro we would be in a difficult situation, with the currencies of the weaker countries falling in value and the deutsche mark rising to such an extent that it would be impossible for the german and european economies to sustain it. so the euro has been a factor of stability, not only for the countries that are in the euro zone, but also for the currencies of the countries that did not want to join the euro zone. that is why we must defend this community which has responded to the crisis in a way that no other community has, and as we shall see in the future, for example, with regard to the dollar and the united states of america, we shall see how the euro does indeed have advantages. we now have a responsibility in this council to do everything we can to defend the euro, in particular to create a stabilisation fund which follows the community method and is able to bring responsibility to the countries which are in the most fragile situation and solidarity to those which have fulfilled their obligations and which have not always shown, at least in their external statements, that they are ready to show solidarity in the context of the euro area.
madam president, it is unacceptable that the essential measures continue to be postponed, indifferent to the growth of unemployment, poverty, inequalities, asymmetries and economic recession caused by the so-called austerity plans, while economic and financial groups continue to make ever-increasing profits. so, here are a few more questions: why not change the statutes and guidelines of the european central bank so that its loans are made directly to the member states at the rate of 1%, as they currently do to private banks, which then charge rates three, four or five times higher, thus aggravating sovereign debts? why do they not decide to impose a tax on capital movements and take the necessary measures to put an end to tax havens and derivatives markets by putting an end to speculation on sovereign debt? why do they not decide to increase the community budget for a genuine policy of economic and social cohesion aimed at increasing production, creating jobs with rights ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, the next council is indeed very important. it is important in responding to a crisis which is general and international, but it is also important in responding to a specific crisis of states which have not done their homework on time, which have overspent and which have not made the necessary structural reforms. that is why i am here to defend the need for a stable instrument for the defence of the euro. the answer cannot and should not be case by case. that is why i am in favour of it being done in accordance with the community method, not in accordance with the intergovernmental method, essentially rewarding governments which have not done what they should have done in time. i stress the need for an increased role for the european parliament in the discussion of these matters, with debates such as the one we have had here today: alive, with differences, but in defence of a stronger european union and an ever better euro.
madam president, there is no stability mechanism to deal with the major causes of instability in the european union. the same policies that brought us to this crisis, the same ones that now want to continue and deepen. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the process of european integration, but also the european parliament itself. as we enter the second decade of the 21st century, this european union cannot help but be associated with the greatest social regression that europe has suffered in recent decades, the result of an unparalleled attack on the rights and living conditions of the peoples. the economic and financial groups continue to amass colossal profits, unemployment continues to spread and millions of workers are impoverished at work. this is the message that is being echoed in the struggles for this europe outside and that it is time to listen to.
madam president, making accusations does not solve our problems and in some cases reveals ignorance of the different situations. we need measures to stop speculation on sovereign debts. there is much talk about the portuguese situation, but a report by the international monetary fund this month concludes that portugal was one of the countries that made the most reforms to ensure the sustainability of public finances and social security. before the crisis, in 2007, portugal had an economic growth of 2.4% of gdp and a deficit of 2.6%. between 2005 and 2010, portugal was one of the countries that increased its exports the most, so we need more unity, more responsibility and more solidarity for the markets to calm down.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council, i would like to say that this citizens' initiative is a very important step towards recognising the constitutional nature of the european union. only a constitutional body, with or without a written constitution, is in a position to give its citizens an instrument with this capacity, and i therefore regard this gesture of ours as having a very important value: the value of giving the european union this constitutional character. i would also like to say that this is a very important step for citizens and for solidarity between citizens. by having a quarter of the states as a minimum condition for launching an initiative, we are also creating a trans-european and pan-european movement, because it is much more difficult to be appropriated by lobbies or partisan interests, contrary to what is said here, it is much more difficult when we require that there be 7, 8 states with citizens to subscribe to this initiative and therefore i am convinced that it will also be a means of strengthening solidarity between european states, between the citizens of european states, solidarity which at this moment, and two days from the european council so decisive this december, solidarity which we need today more than ever.
in writing. − the flexibility instrument aims to enable the financing of specifically identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. in this respect, its use in the 2011 budget is linked to the need to finance the programmes 'lifelong learning' and 'competitiveness and innovation' under the eu 2020 strategy, as well as to finance financial assistance to palestine, the peace process and unrwa. the importance of these programmes means that i intend to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the agreement reached in the conciliation on the use of the flexibility instrument to finance, in particular, the lifelong learning programme. i think it is crucial that the european union invests in the development of quality education and training and in the promotion of high levels of achievement. only high standards and quality in education can make europe more competitive.
in writing. − the community budget for 2011 represents eur 141.8 billion in commitment expenditure and eur 126.5 billion in payment expenditure. the ep's priorities in this budget are set out as evidence of the strengthening of funding in education and innovation. so under heading 1a - competitiveness for growth and jobs - there is an increase of €18 million for the lifelong learning programme and under heading 3b - citizenship - there is an additional €3 million for the youth in action programme. i welcome the commitment of the next four eu presidencies (the governments of hungary, poland, denmark and cyprus) to involve the european parliament in the future talks and negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. i welcome the european commission's commitment to present a formal proposal by the end of june 2011, ensuring that the proposals for own resources are discussed at the same time as the mff. the involvement of the european parliament in these matters is, moreover, provided for in the treaty of lisbon (articles 312 (5), 324 and 311). i hope that the need for unanimity in the council for the adoption of the next mff and for the new own resources will not lead to a deadlock.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the community budget for 2011, which was presented by the parliament's committee on budgets to the plenary, increases funding for the priorities set by the ep such as education, innovation, the middle east and palestine peace process, the lifelong learning programme, the research programme 'people' and the entrepreneurship and innovation programme. i congratulate the ep, the council and the commission for agreeing also that if additional funds are needed to comply with eu legal obligations, there will be amending budgets throughout 2011, as the eu budget cannot legally be in deficit. in addition to the budget, the ep had certain political demands relating to the implementation of the rules laid down in the lisbon treaty, notably on a new system of own resources, and in relation to these it is good to know that the ec has now announced that it will present a formal initiative by the end of june 2011, ensuring that the proposals for own resources are discussed at the same time as the future financial perspectives.
in writing. - i welcome the budget adopted today as it maintains the priority lines adopted by parliament in october, which strengthen key areas such as education, youth, research and innovation. it is essential to provide the eu with a sustainable budget that can be fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year, as opposed to a system of provisional twelfths that would jeopardise the implementation of its policies. it is equally important that we fight for a budget that is visionary in times of crisis and that reinforces areas that contribute to economic growth and more and better jobs, such as science and innovation. only through an ambitious budget can there be economic recovery in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the new draft budget for 2011 because it reinforces funding in areas that had been identified as priorities by the european parliament, such as education, innovation, competitiveness and cohesion for growth and jobs, and the conservation and management of natural resources.
in writing. − the 2011 budget will be the first union budget to be agreed after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this agreement, reached under the new codecision procedure, although it does not meet all the concerns of the european parliament, is the basis for a common understanding of the budgetary priorities for the union. in the face of the new challenges facing the union, it is crucial that there is a power to allow the commission to submit amendments to the budget when it considers that the appropriations provided are insufficient to achieve the strategic objectives, in particular in the context of the priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy. it will also be for the european parliament and the council to find a common platform for a rapid and effective response, creating the conditions for a more equal and competitive union, capable of meeting new challenges.
in writing. − the outcome of the 2011 budget debate was predictable in view of the responsibilities of the council and the main political groups in this parliament, both in defining and accepting the current multiannual financial framework and in approving the successive budgets it has been covering. but what this agreement does not erase, but rather reinforces, are the many reasons for criticism of this budget which we have left behind. in the face of the worsening economic and social crisis, unemployment and the living conditions of millions of people - to which the plans for genuine social terrorism that the eu is trying to impose on the member states contribute in large measure - we all know once again what the real meaning of the much-vaunted european solidarity is: a budget that does not go beyond 1% of community gnp, incapable of ensuring any redistributive function, incapable of ensuring economic and social cohesion and which will undoubtedly accentuate the harmful effects of the policies that the eu has been pursuing. we are saying again that there is an alternative to this budget and that it is not only possible but also absolutely necessary! an alternative would be to significantly increase the community budget, based on fair contributions from the member states in line with their gni.
in writing. − after intensive negotiations, it was finally possible to reach an agreement on the 2011 budget. the budget is not the ideal one, but it is a document that will enable the eu to achieve its objectives. the eu budget for 2011, approved today in plenary, increases funding for the priorities set by the european parliament such as education, innovation, the middle east peace process and palestine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's resolution because i considered that, although the draft budget as amended by the council does not fully meet the real need for a sustainable, coherent and effective budget of the union, parliament's objective of providing the union with a budget capable of being fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year has been achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's resolution because i agree that, although the draft budget as amended by the council does not fully meet the real need for a sustainable, coherent and effective budget of the union, parliament's aim was to provide the union with a budget which could be fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year.
in writing. - the european union's 2011 budget is being adopted for the first time under the new lisbon treaty regime. i welcome the affirmation of the european parliament's powers in this area and i subscribe to the main priorities outlined in the document we are voting on today. in 2011, special attention should be given to the theme of youth, education and mobility, a priority which is taken into account in all sections of the budget. it is necessary to focus on young people and the training of all european citizens, in particular through the longlife learning, erasmus mundus and eures programmes. it is also essential to promote investment in research and innovation and the role of smes as the driving force of our economy. given the importance of cohesion policy as a cross-cutting element of all european policies, i welcome the allocation provided for in the document which is essential for the proper functioning of this policy. for the reasons i have just given and because i believe that the european union is going through a period in which it is necessary to make greater efforts to make europe stronger and more competitive, while maintaining the need to strengthen interinstitutional dialogue, i am voting in favour of the draft presented by parliament.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 613 redundancies in two enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 46 (wholesale trade other than of motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the nuts ii region of north holland in the netherlands, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that the functioning and added value of the egf should be assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and of several other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006, as part of the mid-term review process of the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013.
in writing. − aid for workers made redundant as a result of restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be activated quickly and effectively. in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement instruments to support the workers affected promptly and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in this respect, the financial assistance provided should be on an individual basis. it should also be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. given that the netherlands has submitted a request for assistance concerning 613 redundancies in two enterprises in division 46 (wholesale trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) of nace rev. 2 in the region of north holland, i vote in favour of this report as a whole, i.e. in favour of mobilising the egf for the netherlands.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis we are experiencing, together with the constant changes in the labour market caused by changes in the structure of international trade, has resulted in numerous victims of unemployment, which is often long-lasting. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to respond to these situations. in this case, we are talking specifically about the mobilisation of just over two and a half million euros for the netherlands to support 613 redundancies in two trading and retail companies between 1 may 2009 and 31 january 2010. since the commission, after examining this application, has found it to be suitable and to meet the requirements laid down and recommends that the application be approved, i have voted in favour.
in writing. − in the face of the social impact of the global economic crisis, with particular effects on employment, the proper use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is of key importance in alleviating the suffering of many european citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while also providing new qualified resources for the needs of businesses and the dynamisation of the economy. this is the context in which the dutch intervention plan concerns 613 redundancies in two enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 46 (wholesale trade other than in motor vehicles) in the nuts ii region of north holland in the netherlands. i therefore hope that the european institutions will step up their efforts to implement measures to speed up and improve the utilization rates of such an important resource as the egf, which at present has very low rates of mobilisation. this year, only 11% of the available €500 million has been requested.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands, which has applied to mobilise the egf, in respect of 613 redundancies in two enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 46 (wholesale trade other than in motor vehicles) in the nuts ii region of north holland, the netherlands.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in relation to 613 redundancies in two enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 46 (wholesale trade other than of motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the nuts ii region of north holland in the netherlands, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, as amended by the european parliament. i also agree that:- the egf should support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market on an individual basis, reiterating that egf assistance does not replace actions which are the responsibility of enterprises by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of enterprises or sectors; - the functioning and added value of the egf are assessed in the context of the overall evaluation of the programmes and various other instruments established by the iia of 17 may 2006; i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused esf resources, following the european parliament's frequent calls for the egf to be set up as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and therefore the need to identify appropriate budget lines for carrying out transfers.
in writing. − the application submitted by the netherlands for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 613 redundancies in two enterprises in division 46 (wholesale trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) of nace rev. 2 in the nuts ii region of north holland fulfils all the legally defined eligibility criteria. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. − the present proposal does not seek to harmonise substantive law applicable to divorce and legal separation, but rather to establish harmonised rules for the settlement of international jurisdictional disputes. this means that we are working within the framework of private international law and not within the substantive framework of family law, where each state will continue to have its own laws. it is therefore important to recall that, for example, the proposed regulation, by adding article 7a, does not oblige a state to recognise as marriage - even if only to ensure its dissolution - an act which is not regarded as such by its national law (which would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity). this cannot, however, limit the rights of persons whose unions are not recognised in a state, a compromise solution having to be found. having made these reservations, i cannot but consider it an important step towards the construction of an area of freedom and justice, in which the free movement of persons is effective, to give greater legal certainty to the resolution of conflicts of international jurisdiction in the field of family law, in particular in the field of dissolution of marriage and legal separation of persons.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report which should allow couples from different member states, or residing in a country other than their own, the possibility of choosing the law that should apply to their divorce. in 2007, one million divorces were recorded in the eu, 13% of which involved couples with partners of different nationalities. in these cases, european citizens are confronted with problems of the legal order applicable to their separation. i would stress that portugal is part of the process of enhanced cooperation which has enabled progress to be made on this matter, which was blocked in the council. i would stress the need, as stated in this report, not to oblige a member state to recognise as a marriage - even if only for the purpose of its dissolution - an act which is not regarded as such by the legislation of that state and which would also be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − the new regulation will allow international couples (couples with different nationalities, couples living in different countries or couples living together in a country other than their country of origin) to choose the national law applicable to their divorce, provided that one of the spouses has a connection to that country (e.g. habitual residence or nationality). the new rules also clarify the law applicable in the event of a disagreement between the spouses. the new regulation will allow, for example, a portuguese-spanish couple living in belgium to choose whether the law applicable to their divorce will be portuguese, spanish or belgian law.
in writing. - portugal is participating, together with 13 other eu countries (spain, italy, hungary, luxembourg, austria, romania, slovenia, bulgaria, france, germany, belgium, latvia and malta) in the first trial of enhanced cooperation in the history of the eu. this enhanced cooperation shall be developed in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation of persons and property. i voted in favour of this report on the regulation laying down clear rules on the procedure for international couples (with spouses of different nationalities) to apply for divorce or legal separation of persons and property in their countries of origin or residence. this is a widely agreed theme which will make life easier for some europeans. at the same time, it is also a symbolic moment in which a situation of enhanced cooperation between eu member states is beginning. these provisions are intended to enhance legal certainty and predictability in matters of divorce and legal separation of persons and property. the agreement provides only for the harmonization of situations of conflict and not for the harmonization of the substantive national rules.
in writing. − the development of an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is ensured is one of the primary objectives of the european union. i therefore welcome this proposal, which introduces greater legal certainty in determining the law applicable to divorces and separations of national marriages, and i hope that other member states will join in this effort to achieve the compatibility of national conflict-of-law rules in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the global financial crisis, to which the credit rating agencies have contributed in part, has shown the need to introduce a framework for the supervision of credit rating agencies. i agree with this report, which calls for the establishment at european level of a system for the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies issuing ratings used in the eu, and which also provides for the conditions for the use in the eu of ratings issued by third country agencies. the agreement reached on the european supervisory architecture, which will enter into force on 1 january 2011, now makes it possible to effectively implement the supervision of these agencies. it is essential that, from its inception, esma should be able to exercise its powers to ensure sound supervision of credit rating agencies active in the eu as well as those from third countries whose ratings are authorised in the eu, in full coordination with national authorities. i also welcome the fact that the usa has also decided to adopt stricter supervisory rules in this area, which have been taken into account by the commission in preparing further international harmonization.
in writing. − the need for this amendment arises from the need to adapt regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 to the new european supervisory architecture and the introduction of a new mechanism for centralising the operations of credit rating agencies. to this end, the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority - esma) will be given specific supervisory, investigative and sanctioning powers. it is now necessary to ensure that esma is able to exercise its powers and to ensure sound supervision of credit rating agencies active in the european union as well as of third-country credit rating agencies whose ratings are authorised in the european union.
in writing. − this amendment is necessary to allow the adaptation of regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 to the new european supervisory architecture and to introduce a new mechanism for centralising the operations of credit rating agencies. the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority - esma) will thus be given powers of its own for supervision, investigation and the application of sanctions. it is essential that esma is able to exercise its powers and ensure sound supervision of credit rating agencies active in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's resolution to agree that:- the registration and ongoing supervision of credit rating agencies in the union should be the sole responsibility of the european supervisory authority (esa), in particular the european securities and markets authority (esma), which should have exclusive competence to conclude cooperation agreements on the exchange of information with the competent authorities of third countries;- the esma should be responsible for the registration and ongoing supervision of credit rating agencies and have the right to request, by simple request or decision, all information it needs from credit rating agencies, persons involved in credit rating activities, entities subject to credit rating and related third parties, third parties to whom credit rating agencies have subcontracted operational functions and persons who are otherwise closely and substantially related or connected to credit rating agencies or credit rating activities; - the registration of a credit rating agency granted by a competent authority is valid throughout the union after the transfer of the supervisory powers of the competent authorities to esma.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's resolution because i agree that transparency of information provided by the issuer of a rated financial instrument to the designated credit rating agency can potentially represent a major added value for the functioning of the market and the protection of investors.
in writing. - i agree with the need to simplify the acquis communautaire and to update directives that no longer make sense and make them relevant to today. the directives in question are outdated and do not contribute to better regulation. the commission considered that there was no need to harmonise metrology legislation as it considered that there was sufficient cooperation between member states and that the current situation of common recognition of rules based on international parameters in the different member states was satisfactory. however, it must be borne in mind that a lack of regulation in this area would be harmful and that we cannot contribute to legal uncertainty.
in writing. the report in question concerns the choice to be made as regards eight directives relating to metrology in six sectors, with a view to simplifying the acquis of european law in this field: cold water meters for non-clean water (directive 75/33/eec); alcoholometers and alcohol-metering tables (directives 76/765/eec and 76/766/eec); weights of average and above-average precision respectively (directives 71/317/eec and 74/148/eec); manometers for motor vehicle tyres (directive 86/217/eec); measurement of the mass of cereals (directive 71/347/eec); calibration of vessel tanks (directive 71/349/eec). in considering the different options for these eight directives - total repeal, conditional repeal and no action - the commission concludes that there is no single option that stands out. but for the sake of better regulation, the commission is in favour of the total repeal of all the directives, that is, it is in favour of new regulation in the field of measuring instruments. i support this choice by the commission on the basis of a principle of legislative excellence, but i believe that member states should be given sufficient time to consider the possible consequences in the context of a broader review of the basic legal instrument in this field, namely the measuring instruments directive (directive 2004/22/ec).
in writing. − a simple and updated acquis communautaire is one of the eu's objectives. there is no point in maintaining certain completely outdated standards. as regards metrology, it is understood that no harmonisation is necessary as the legislation in force is a common recognition of the rules based on the international parameters of the different member states. we must not, however, leave a regulatory vacuum in this area, so that there is no legal uncertainty.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the commission advocated the complete repeal of all eight metrology directives, while the rapporteur's position is more balanced by giving member states more time to investigate whether repealing the directives will lead to legal uncertainty that would necessitate european harmonisation of metrology rules. a transitional period is therefore established to examine the possible consequences of the repeal of the directives and to examine the need to revise the basic directive in this area (directive 2004/22/ec).
in writing. - i agree with the general aim of better regulating the issue of metrology. however, i think that greater consideration is advisable, since hasty standardization could cause more disruption and legal uncertainty than it would bring benefits.
in writing. - i have always considered this initiative to be one of the most important innovations of the lisbon treaty. the possibility for one million citizens from a significant number of member states to be able to propose a legislative initiative should contribute to the strengthening of european citizenship of an organised civil society at eu level. i have stressed the importance of this measure, especially since members of the european parliament are not allowed to initiate legislation. i hope that the practical application of this legislative petition will not prove too bureaucratic and discourage the use of this new instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the citizens' initiative, one of the most important provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon, under which one million citizens can ask the commission to submit certain legislative proposals. the proposals adopted by the european parliament should make the rules on the citizens' initiative clearer, simpler and easier to apply.
in writing. − the citizens' initiative, adopted today, is another step towards establishing a europe for and by the people, increasing democracy, transparency and bringing europe closer to citizens and to an active, engaged and participatory civil society. european citizens will now be able to ask the european commission to propose legislation on a given subject, provided that a minimum number of signatories from at least one fifth of the member states is guaranteed. however, i cannot help but express some perplexity at the exclusion of legal persons and organisations as 'organisers' (article 2 (3)), thinking in particular of ngos and also of political parties, founding organisations of representative democracy, and at the terminology chosen - 'citizens' committee' - to identify the set of organisers. i cannot help feeling a certain oddity at the attempt to set the minimum age of signatories at 16, when the right to vote and stand as a candidate in most member states comes at the age of 18. that should be the heading proposed by the commission (article 3 (7) and (2) of the proposal).
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report on the european citizens' initiative introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which aims to give citizens the same powers of political initiative as the council of ministers and the european parliament. each initiative will have 12 months to collect one million signatures, which must come from at least one quarter of the member states (currently seven). the minimum number of signatories per country varies between 74,250 in germany and 3,750 in malta. in the case of portugal, the minimum number of signatories required to support an initiative is 16.500. the validity of statements of support shall be determined by the member states. in portugal, the number of the identity card, passport or national identity card should be included. signatories must be eu citizens and of the age required to vote in european elections (18 in portugal). the commission will then examine the initiative and decide within three months whether to submit european legislation on the matter. the community executive will have to 'indicate the measures it intends to take and the reasons which justify or do not justify them'. this justification shall be made public.
in writing. - this is clearly a demagogic initiative, propaganda by the european union, which serves only to try to hide the impoverishment of democracy that is being experienced and to make people forget that european officials prevented the referendum on the same lisbon treaty that provides for the so-called citizens' initiative. moreover, the treaty on european union itself sets out the limits of such a citizens' initiative by stating in article 11 that one million signatures from a significant number of member states are required, and then adding that they can only invite the european commission to submit an appropriate proposal on matters on which those citizens consider a legal act of the union to be necessary for the implementation of the treaties. in other words, after all the work of collecting signatures and meeting the requirements laid down in the proposal for a regulation, there is no guarantee that citizens will have their requests taken into account. the report adopted by the ep slightly improves the european commission's proposal, but it must respect the provisions of the treaty, which in fact limits the scope of the citizens' initiative. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - with this important initiative by the european parliament, one million european citizens will be able to ask the european commission to come forward with legislation on a particular subject. the rules implementing the citizens' initiative, which was approved by the european parliament today, stipulate that signatories must come from at least seven member states. in the case of portugal, at least 16,500 signatures will be needed to support an initiative. the treaty of lisbon created a 'right of initiative for citizens' under which one million citizens can ask the commission to submit certain legislative proposals. the regulation adopted today in plenary establishes the conditions for the presentation of future citizens' initiatives.
in writing. − naturally supporting the citizens' initiative regulation, i disagree, however, with the possibility of these initiatives being subscribed to by members of the european parliament (or national members) and of their being financed by political parties or public bodies. i think that both solutions run counter to the spirit of the new mechanism, which is to give ordinary citizens and civil society a means of intervening in the political life of the union. i also disagree with the commission's power to adopt certain technical specifications necessary for the implementation of the law by means of an executive act. acts of general scope entrusted to the commission for the implementation of legislative acts should not be considered as executive acts, under the control of the member states, but as delegated acts, under the direct control of the legislator. it is also pointless, after the treaty of lisbon, to continue to apply the regulatory procedure of traditional comitology, since these are obviously matters which are now covered by the legislative procedure or the procedure for delegated acts. those provisions are therefore contrary to the treaty of lisbon. apart from these specific objections, i think that overall this is an excellent law that does justice to the political and constitutional importance of this new mechanism of participatory democracy in the eu.
in writing. - i am very pleased to vote in favour of this report on the citizens' initiative, one of the major innovations of the lisbon treaty. this new legal instrument could be a way of promoting the exercise of european citizenship. in fact, giving a million citizens the opportunity to propose to the european commission that it legislate on a particular subject is a very positive step towards bringing europe closer to its citizens. i commend the work of the rapporteurs who have sought to simplify the citizens' initiative and to remove any bureaucratic burden so as to make it as accessible as possible. i agree with most of the demands made by the european parliament, in particular that the admissibility of an initiative should be checked at the time of its submission and not after 300,000 signatures have been collected, which could meet the expectations of the citizens who have signed it. i welcome the reduction in the minimum number of member states involved in the initial signature of the initiative. the original proposal was for signatories from at least one third of the member states and the european parliament and the council agreed to signatories from one quarter of the member states.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report, which represents a very important step in affirming the constitutional nature of the european union, providing citizens with an accessible and effective mechanism of democratic participation, which will certainly contribute to greater involvement and commitment of citizens in european political life and to the strengthening of the bonds of solidarity between the various member states.
in writing. − the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a public participation instrument that aims to address the democratic deficit and, as such, to reduce the distance that european citizens feel towards the european institutions. the institutionalisation of this initiative, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, gives european citizens the possibility of indirectly inviting the european commission to propose certain legislative measures, provided that they fall within its competence. this report by the european parliament sets out the criteria for the exercise of this right of initiative, in order to make it simpler, more accessible, faster, more transparent and uniform across all the member states. the creation of a genuine european public space will be possible thanks to this initiative, which promotes civil dialogue and the involvement of civil society. i believe that all initiatives aimed at reducing the distance between citizens and the european project should be emphasised, implemented and fully exercised.
in writing. − i consider the commission's 2011 programme to be ambitious, with the main objective of revitalising the european economy, through the eu 2020 political priorities together with the budget in the 2011 multiannual financial framework - new financing and expenditure measures, new 'own resources' decision - expressing concern that conditional financing could aggravate the situation of weaker national economies and not have the desired purpose of eu 2020, which is to revitalise the economy. i believe that the structural funds are essential for the economic recovery and competitiveness of european regions, and that in a time of crisis the additional constraints of austerity measures can aggravate the eu's endogenous development. the emphasis is on reforming the common agricultural and fisheries policies and cohesion policy, always taking into account the different starting points of the different regions and including measures adapted to different realities. smes should have a prominent role and the approach to the internationalisation of smes in world trade relations and the efforts to modernise and make them competitive, as set out in the priorities of this work programme, should be welcomed.
in writing. - bearing in mind that the current crisis in europe continues to have an impact on the economies of the member states and that there is therefore an urgent need for significant adjustments both at national and union level, and being aware of the fundamental importance of 2011 for the success of the future of the union and the challenge this poses to the european commission and, in general, to the union as a whole, i vote in favour of this motion for a resolution as a whole. i would also like to highlight the range of proposals which show the european commission's intention to exploit the growth potential of the single market. i believe that maximising the potential of the single market through greater integration of markets and the strengthening of confidence of european businesses and consumers can help to boost the european economy. i believe, however, that the commission could go further in this matter by presenting more ambitious and concrete proposals which meet the needs of the market players.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2011, which is the first to be adopted under the new programming cycle and which should contribute to a deepening of the dialogue between parliament and the commission in order to improve the link between political priorities and the budget at eu level.
in writing. − the commission has presented an ambitious commission work programme for 2011, which has as its key points: (i) inclusive growth; (ii) sustainable growth and (iii) financial regulation. as regards the issue of inclusive growth, where the commission puts the emphasis on the sustainability of social security systems and the fight against poverty, i believe that we need to find the exact balance between austerity and social support and determine the direction in which the reforms of european social security systems should go. on the subject of sustainable growth, it is important to understand how the necessary environmental protection will be reconciled with future cap and cfp reforms. finally, as regards financial regulation and strengthening economic governance, all steps to make the european banking system more robust and resilient to crisis scenarios and to strengthen member states' fiscal policies and their economic coordination should be considered as a top priority, as the major challenge for 2011 will indeed be to exit the crisis and lay the foundations for a growth policy.
in writing. - we voted against the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2011 because, on the substance of the matter, it supports its positions and ignores the real need to break with the neoliberal, militarist and anti-social policies which the european commission advocates. even if he criticizes the european commission on one or other point for not having given the answers that parliament wanted, in practice he gives him cover, whether it is when he congratulates himself on the priority given to economic reform, giving priority to budgetary sustainability and secondary to social sustainability, or when he insists on defending the deepening of the single market, or when he insists on the conclusion of the doha round as soon as possible, and on the respective free trade agreements. the majority of this parliament therefore intends to continue the same policy which is promoting the so-called austerity plans in several member states, in fact indifferent to the growth of unemployment, poverty, inequalities, asymmetries and economic recession which the so-called austerity plans cause, while the economic and financial groups continue to make ever-increasing profits. so we could only vote against.
in writing. − the commission's new work programme for 2011 is based on three pillars: (1) inclusive growth; (2) sustainable growth and (3) financial regulation. we will therefore have to work towards achieving the sustainability of social security systems, the fight against poverty, economic growth that is also concerned with protecting the environment, the strengthening of economic governance, so that the european banking system becomes stronger and can withstand future crisis scenarios, and the strengthening of the budgetary policies of the member states, because the main challenge for 2011 is to get out of the crisis and restart a growth policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2011 because it is in line with its main objectives. it is a fact that the main priority for 2011 should be to boost the economic recovery. i would like to highlight very positively in the commission's work programme the strengthening of economic governance and the completion of financial sector reform, together with measures to restore growth and create jobs. effective, sustainable and inclusive growth of the economy is key to restoring confidence and optimism in the eu. in this sense, the emphasis on research and development, energy security and horizontal labour policies which allow for the real movement of workers are fundamental pillars of a growth-oriented work programme. the aim of building an area of freedom, security and justice should also be emphasised.
in writing. − the commission presents its work programme for 2011 at a particularly sensitive time in the european union. the recovery from the economic crisis is not yet fully established, and the programme for next year must continue to focus on a recovery dynamic in the european economy. the year 2011 should be the year in which eu 2020 is integrated into european work to pursue the objectives of smart, sustainable and integrated growth. i reiterate the importance of restoring job-creating growth by accelerating the eu 2020 reform agenda. in this context, i would like to highlight the role of the following flagship initiatives: the innovation union, the digital agenda, new skills and jobs and the anti-poverty platform. i believe it is essential to ensure structural reform in order to improve european competitiveness and accelerate economic growth, in particular through a cohesion policy that promotes investment in the real economy. the future cohesion policy should also ensure that the new multiannual financial framework delivers on the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and european policies in the framework of lisbon. the european parliament should be actively involved in this process and it is essential that the commission urgently presents a model for interinstitutional cooperation to this end.
in writing. - i am pleased to have voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the third eu-africa summit. at a time when the african continent is diversifying its investment partnerships, in particular with asian and latin american countries, the proposed eu-africa strategic action plan 2010-2013 is of particular relevance as it could bring added value in relation to the union for the mediterranean and the cotonou agreement. i believe that regional integration of african countries through the african union, trade and investment are of crucial importance in this context for political and economic stability and sustainable growth in africa. i therefore hope that african leaders and the eu will not only honour the commitment of tripoli but also recognise this strategic partnership, among other things, as a valid instrument for promoting intra-regional african trade. i also share president barroso's conviction that renewable energy is vital for africa's economic and social development, supporting his call for a green energy revolution in africa.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the africa-eu strategic partnership in the run-up to the 3rd africa-eu summit because i believe that the partnership established between the two continents three years ago, during the portuguese eu presidency, should be further strengthened so that together we can face common challenges and promote sustainable development, peace and human rights.
in writing. − the first eu-africa summit was held in lisbon in december 2007, laying the foundations for a permanent dialogue between europe and the african continent, to which we have very important historical, cultural, economic and trade links, opening a path of cooperation that has been under way and which brought european and african leaders to tripoli three years later. i believe that a lasting and healthy eu-africa partnership is fundamental to development and progress and therefore i believe that the investment both sides have made in deepening their relations is fully justified. we live in a time when traditional cooperation policies, carried out through mere humanitarian aid, no longer respond to the needs of developing countries, particularly on the african continent. i therefore believe that the future of cooperation will depend in part on the establishment of trade relations and economic partnerships, as well as effective exchanges in the fields of research, innovation and education, areas in which eu-africa cooperation must be deepened.
in writing. − the 3rd eu-africa summit was held in tripoli from 29 to 30 november 2010. i regret that the joint eu-africa strategy has not succeeded in establishing a new strategic relationship. i reiterate my hope for a fruitful agreement at the next summit and for sustainable objectives for both partners to combat poverty and ensure a decent income and livelihood, as well as the realisation of basic human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights in africa.
in writing. − the challenges facing african countries are immense in the context of a serious crisis in the world economy. the crisis presented as financial finally exposes the limits of economic growth as understood by capitalism, namely in the availability of fertile land for the production of food and other biological raw materials, geological reserves for the extraction of mineral raw materials and energy to power industries. this accelerates the race to africa, a continent immensely rich in natural resources. dominating markets and natural resources is the goal. it is in this context that the eu's policy towards africa should be understood: blackmailing for the signing of the so-called economic partnership agreements; promoting the secession of south sudan; supporting and financing the african peace and security architecture, seeking to put its armies to repress its peoples, to serve the interests of the eu and its economic and financial groups. these are just a few examples. for all these reasons, this resolution is about neo-colonialism. it is necessary to break the shackles that keep the countries of this region in subjection to interests alien to their peoples, by establishing genuine cooperation, helping them to consolidate their independence and sovereignty with a view to their development and economic and social progress.
in writing. - it has been three years since the last africa-eu summit, which was the beginning of a dialogue between europe and the african continent. this partnership is fundamental to development and progress and an important effort by both sides to deepen relations. the partnerships should not be limited to community aid. trade relations, economic partnerships and exchanges of experience in the fields of research, innovation and education should also be established, thus deepening future relations.
in writing. - relations between the european union and africa are admittedly fundamental. i therefore welcome the adoption of the strategic action plan 2010-2013 and the partnerships established. i would highlight the peace and security agenda, the eu's efforts to provide predictable and sustainable funding for african peace support operations, and the need to build local capacity, resilience and resolve to protect civilians in armed conflict. i cannot fail to emphasize the efforts of cooperation on issues of common interest such as democratic governance and human rights, trade, regional integration and infrastructure and the millennium goals. in the latter area, the commitment of the european union countries to renew their commitment to allocate 0.7% of their gross national income to official development assistance by 2015 should be highlighted. this effort is crucial to meet the millennium development goals, notably with regard to specific policies on maternal, newborn and child health, gender, education, agricultural policy, sustainable development, access to water and sanitation.
in writing. the third africa-eu summit in the libyan capital of tripoli has reinforced the level of cooperation between the two continents. on the subject of growth, investment and job creation, the summit stressed the need to create economic growth capable of generating employment and, at the same time, sustainable social development. the africa-eu strategy will be implemented in accordance with the action plan adopted for the period 2010-13, which focuses on the eight priority areas already established at the lisbon summit in 2007. concrete measures on private enterprise, economic integration and social issues, security and peace on the african continent, respect for human rights and the achievement of the millennium development goals were included in the tripoli final declaration. i would first of all like to welcome this partnership between the two continents, which has demonstrated the added value for both partners and the importance of continuing to promote regional and global integration on the african continent. however, i believe it is appropriate for the european parliament to play a more active role in this partnership and for a financing plan to be drawn up for the effective implementation of the 2010-13 action plan.
in writing. − the importance of protecting and promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms is at the heart of democratic values and of the european union itself. i agree that local and regional authorities can play a key role in implementing these values by proposing a bottom-up approach. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon should be seen as a strengthening of the multi-level system of protection of fundamental rights, including the charter. it is necessary to reflect on the developments in the protection of these rights since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, recalling that the charter has the same legal value as the treaties and must be incorporated into eu primary law. the new horizontal obligations created by the lisbon treaty are welcomed and their effectiveness requires better coordination of efforts between the institutions. the creation of the new 'justice, fundamental rights and citizenship' portfolio within the commission is recalled and further action by the commissioner is expected in this new context. tangible results are expected from the new commission communication: strategy for an effective implementation of the charter of fundamental rights by the eu.
in writing. − the effective protection of fundamental rights and respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law should be an overarching objective of all european policies and an essential condition for the consolidation of the european area of freedom, security and justice. the year 2009-2010 was of particular importance in this context, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made the charter of fundamental rights legally binding, thereby translating fundamental values into concrete rights directly enforceable by european and national courts. it is necessary to ensure that all new legislative proposals are in conformity with the charter and, in the same vein, to verify existing instruments. it is important to strengthen cooperation and coherence between the different bodies responsible, at european and national level, for monitoring and implementing this new general framework established by the lisbon treaty, in order to ensure its effective implementation. i also hope that the commission will complete the process of eu accession to the echr as soon as possible, which will provide an additional mechanism for respect for human rights. i am glad that citizens and the protection of their rights have finally been placed at the heart of the european architecture.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on fundamental rights in the european union (2009) - effective implementation after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, because i consider it necessary to promote a culture of fundamental rights in the european union and the member states. the protection of fundamental rights must be an objective of all european policies, including foreign policy, in order to promote peace, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon marks a new paradigm in the field of fundamental rights in the union by making the charter of fundamental rights legally binding. it is our duty to position the union as a community that protects fundamental rights, both internally and externally. there are still too many attacks on freedom of expression, as i have warned on several occasions, such as the recent cases in saudi arabia and azerbaijan. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. the challenge now is to answer these questions and to adopt the measures and strategies needed to solve these problems.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty created a new situation in the eu in the field of human rights by making the charter of fundamental rights legally binding and by giving the union legal personality, which enables it to accede to international treaties. the effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms are the foundation of democracy and the rule of law in the european union and an essential condition for the consolidation of the european area of freedom, security and justice, which requires action at various levels (international, european, national, regional and local). in this context, the important role that regional and local authorities can play in the practical implementation and promotion of these rights should be highlighted. i also welcome the invitation to the commission to designate 2013 as the 'european year of citizenship' in order to boost the debate on european citizenship and to inform european citizens about their rights, in particular the new rights arising from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has brought more responsibilities to the eu in terms of creating a culture of defence of fundamental rights in the eu and the member states. it is essential that the eu promotes the defence of fundamental rights not only at home but also throughout the world, where today we are unfortunately still witnessing major attacks on these rights. only in this way can peace, human rights and fundamental freedoms be promoted.
in writing. − this report emphasises the obligations arising from the lisbon treaty to combat social exclusion and discrimination and to promote social justice and protection, equality between men and women, solidarity between generations and the protection of the rights of the child. the emphasis on these points, together with the explicit reference to persons belonging to minorities, another fundamental value of the european union, motivates my vote in favour. i support the european parliament's position that the commission should conclude the negotiations and technical consultations so that the european union can accede to the european convention on human rights without further delay.
in writing. - advertising is a key instrument for a functioning market and for competition and ultimately for consumers, as it ensures a more informed choice when properly regulated. however, new technologies in the advertising sector open up a whole new area for the development of new unfair promotional practices, which justifies an evolution of the unfair commercial practices directive. for advertising to fulfil its essential functions in a free and competitive market, it must be well regulated and commercial practices which subvert the market must be duly punished. this is particularly important in the forms of online advertising (via the internet and telephone), which reach the public often unsolicited and raise important issues relating, inter alia, to unfair practices and the misuse of personal data. that is why i consider this an excellent initiative which deserves my support.
in writing. − this report focuses on unfair commercial practices in advertising as defined in the unfair commercial practices directive (ucpd), focusing on the issues inherent in the development of new advertising practices and technologies. the report does not address business-to-business ('b2b') relationships covered by, inter alia, directive 2006/114/ec. unfair practices in advertising take many forms: invasion of public space and the public sphere and targeting of particularly vulnerable people such as children. since young people and children are the most exposed to advertising on the internet, i support the need to develop an integrated european policy to combat the misuse of the internet and the media. to this end, i propose the creation of a new compulsory area specifically devoted to learning about the risks associated with the use of the internet and the media, particularly unfair advertising practices, for first-year students, and a compulsory subject in the final year of a degree or training for primary school teachers and early childhood educators to prepare children for the safe and responsible use of the internet and the media, as well as continuing training for education professionals in this area.
in writing. - unfair commercial practices in advertising must be combated. we are increasingly faced with a serious phenomenon of family indebtedness, and everything in our power must be done to prevent this problem from becoming even worse. advertising can and should be an important tool for society, serving as a source of income, stimulating competitiveness, healthy competition and also promoting creativity. we all know that there are vulnerable people, such as children, who are the prime target of these advertising campaigns. i therefore agree that this matter should be given special attention so that we can build a more economically and socially sustainable society. hence my vote
in writing. - the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour is a reality that should not be overlooked and that this report does not escape. this report, which i voted for, deals with unfair commercial practices in advertising as defined in the unfair commercial practices directive, focusing on the problems inherent in the development of new advertising practices and technologies. advertising is a useful tool both for the internal market and for consumers. however, a number of abuses need to be tackled, including unfair practices, the invasion of public and private space (e.g. unsolicited e-mails), the over-focus on vulnerable people and the potential for distortion of the internal market (purchasing goods or services that consumers would not normally buy). the evaluation of these deviations should be the basis for the analysis of the legislation in force and any proposals for its revision and improvement. i agree with the rapporteur that we should intensify european cooperation in combating unfair advertising practices, by extending both its scope and its frequency.
in writing. − i agree with the general objectives of this action plan, that better information flow at local level should be ensured or that one-stop shops should be set up, that in view of the reduced use of erdf resources for energy efficiency measures, member states and regions should make energy efficiency a horizontal approach to their development, as it is a cost-effective means of promoting economic competitiveness, creating jobs and reducing fuel shortages. i also agree that the commission should consult local and regional representatives in order to define guidelines for energy development and provide financial support for local and regional projects through innovative programmes using existing energy resources and the structural funds. in this context of possible actions, it is proposed to create greater incentives for regions which have so far played an above-average role in energy efficiency, by promoting their energy independence and, on the other hand, to promote the sharing of good practices between these regions and those with little development in this area.
in writing. − energy efficiency is crucial to increasing security of supply, air quality, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the competitiveness of our society. energy efficiency means doing "more" with "less" resources. this report proposes an ambitious vision for energy efficiency through, for example, the introduction of individual targets and positive incentives. important elements are introduced in the area of modernisation of energy infrastructures such as smart grids, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, use of ict and development of scientific research in the field of energy. this report stresses the need to double funding for scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of energy. in the area of financing, the report also encourages the use of the structural funds for energy efficiency and that this should be a priority in the eu budget after 2013. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, on the excellent work he has done and the balance he has struck, and i would ask everyone to support this important report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the energy efficiency action plan because it contains important proposals for the environment and the economy, in particular the presentation of european legislation introducing binding targets for the reduction of energy consumption.
in writing. − in 2008, europe committed itself to achieving a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 at the latest and to ensuring that 20% of its energy consumption comes from renewable sources. this is a key goal to help europe meet its co2 emissions reduction target and to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels, but it must remain the same, a goal to which the various states voluntarily adhere. for this to happen, rather than imposing a binding limit, it will be more important for member states to agree on solutions that allow for greater energy efficiency and less energy waste, without jeopardising development and without this representing an excessive cost for european industries and producers, especially at a time of economic crisis such as the one we are going through.
in writing. − this report deals with energy efficiency policy in the eu. i am in favour of binding targets. the commission green paper (2005/0265 final) on energy efficiency estimates that about one million new jobs could potentially be created, directly and indirectly, in europe. according to this communication, the beneficiaries of energy efficiency measures are especially smes and it is added that an average household could save on average €1,000 per year with energy efficiency measures. mandatory energy efficiency measures are also crucial to reduce the energy deficit resulting from oil and gas imports from the gulf and russia. we already have binding targets to increase the share of renewable energy in the european union by 20%. without binding energy efficiency measures and with the current framework we could only achieve half of the potential. it is also a matter of legal certainty and an important signal for directing new investment. for the eu and portugal, i see more gains than losses in this binding objective. moreover, if the objectives of eu 2020 are not more than intentions, this strategy will be useless.
in writing. − there have been many promises to increase energy efficiency, but the european union is at risk of not meeting its own targets of 20% by 2020. the latest figures suggest an actual average of only 9%, despite the contribution that increased energy efficiency can make to reducing emissions and energy consumption and dependence. the report contains a wide range of issues which conveniently cover the whole wide field of energy efficiency, although it points to paths which are unlikely to achieve the objectives it seeks to achieve. but there are aspects on which we disagree, such as the association of energy efficiency with the so-called europe 2020 strategy, which envisages the completion of the internal energy market, the promotion of market instruments, the european emissions trading system (covering part of the profits in energy efficiency), and forgetting the need to defend a strong public energy sector that each state must promote. while agreeing that community funds are needed to achieve the objectives, there are still some doubts as to the practical feasibility of using up to 15% of the erdf or using the eafrd for energy efficiency, since it should be up to the member states to define their needs and priorities for the distribution of these funds.
in writing. − an action plan for european energy policy must address the following aspects: moving towards a low-carbon energy system, ensuring security of energy supply and ensuring the enhancement of the union's competitiveness and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices. to achieve them requires a very strong financial and human effort.
in writing. − the rapporteur, a member of the epp group, for the review of the energy efficiency action plan proposes a balanced approach to achieving the 20% energy saving target set by the european council in 2007. the pragmatic way of implementing an energy efficiency policy, proposed by the rapporteur, through individual targets and without the imposition of legally binding objectives, seemed to me the most appropriate way, in the present economic and political context, to achieve this objective. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. in the report, which i am voting in favour of, i highlight the various actions at community and member state level to promote energy efficiency: the implementation of existing legislation in this field, energy-efficient urban development, the construction of energy-efficient buildings and the financing of these and other measures through the creation of national energy efficiency funds. it should be noted that this report by the european parliament is an important contribution to the ongoing review of the energy efficiency action plan by the european commission.
madam high representative, how do you feel when you see governments like the french or the portuguese divert demonstrations when chinese dignitaries visit their capitals so that they are not seen by chinese dignitaries visiting these countries? wasn't the idea to have a high representative so that europe could speak with one voice about human rights abroad, for example in china? don't you think that's a little much to speak of in more than one voice? curious, why do you always sit on the council's side? what is the philosophy or constitutional theory behind this choice? a third question: i would like our european diplomats to make human rights a daily priority, but not the second, third or fourth priority, but the first. what will you do to get some of our diplomats to think of human rights as a full-time job every day? would it not be good to have, as several colleagues have already suggested, a permanent board devoted to this?
richard holbrooke, to whom i also pay my deepest respects, said just before he died: the war in afghanistan must be stopped. in fact, this country is crucial to our european and global security and that is why, as the pino arlacchi report goes on to say, we need to correct the colossal mistakes made by investing in afghanisation and putting the human security of the afghan people first, which implies a responsibility to protect on the part of the foreign forces present. let us not be fooled: a state of law and democratic institutions cannot be built by warlords, corrupt and discredited in the eyes of the people. ending the war in afghanistan also depends on the democratically elected government controlling the military power in neighbouring pakistan, a nuclear power outside the npt. if they do not continue the policy of ostriching over these fundamental political issues, the europeans in the european union and nato can help stop the war in afghanistan, and also the descent into hell in pakistan.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the nato summit was held in lisbon and so let me say a few words about what happened in my country in connection with this summit. at that time, the portuguese authorities prohibited european citizens from entering the country for one reason only: they were carrying with them texts critical of the alliance. in those days, the least we can say is that an arbitrary regime, a genuine thought police, was in force in portugal. a regime so special that it led the portuguese government to buy riot control equipment worth five million euros and that did not even arrive in time for the summit. and these are the priorities of a government facing a huge social crisis. in the europe we dream of, freedom of expression is a fundamental value. the europe we dream of will not bow down to military organizations that write their history in blood. the nato summit has legitimized their military intervention all over the planet. the european union has also been subordinated to american military strategy and interests. thirdly, the militarization of access to energy sources has been consolidated. finally, the military defence of the development model which creates environmental imbalances and disturbs the social crisis has been instituted. i would therefore like to say to you, madam president, that i believe that with this summit we have lost democracy, we have lost freedom and we have lost so that some can gain from war.
as stated in the conclusions of the nato summit held in lisbon, nato confirms itself as a military alliance, a nuclear military alliance determined to intervene rapidly and massively anywhere in the world, at any time and under any pretext, claiming to have the only robust set of political and military capabilities, capable of dealing with all kinds of crises: before, during and after conflicts. in a disturbing global threat, nato states that it is affected by and can affect political and security developments beyond its borders and that it will therefore actively engage to improve international security through partnerships with relevant countries and other international organizations. it is a statement which reveals two objectives: on the one hand, to assert itself as a sort of emanating centre from which relations of dependence radiate which enable its forces to be present, to exert pressure and to intervene throughout the globe. and on the other hand, to go further down the path of interventionism and the fusion between international security and the internal security of states, thus aiming at the destruction of international law, in a direct affront to the role of the united nations organization in addressing international security issues. the united states, led by a power, is also seeking to strengthen its european pillar, the european union, which is considered a unique and essential partner of nato, and therefore nato leaving lisbon is bigger, more powerful, more dangerous and more covert, but the threat is great and the response of the portuguese people was also great with the parade of more than thirty thousand people in the streets of lisbon, fighting against this organization, demanding its dissolution, which is considered essential for the defence of peace.
the nato strategic council, adopted in lisbon, is not new in its doctrine of nuclear deterrence, it is old. the alliance has decided to retain nuclear weapons as a last-ditch deterrent. ironically, it thus contradicts president obama's calls for a world free of nuclear weapons and the disarmament promised at the last npt review conference. the alliance should lead by example, but that won't stop nuclear proliferation, tragically it will encourage it. and in times of financial crisis, it diverts needed resources to other threats we face. what good are nuclear bombs against terrorism without a sender or an address, against piracy in the indian ocean, against organized crime, cyberattacks or chemical and biological attacks? the council of the european union this week warned of the need to step up efforts against nuclear proliferation. madam high representative, what are your plans to play this card in nato where 21 of the 28 allies are also members of the european union? and what do you have to say to the two nuclear powers who are members of the european union and who have been the most resistant to attempts to change the nato strategic council on this existential question for all mankind?
in writing. the nato summit in lisbon put an end to the strategic concept of security that had been in force since the cold war. the enshrinement of this new security strategy represents a shift from the traditional defence of the atlantic alliance member countries to a global security concept for the 21st century. the challenges highlighted in the new strategic security concept involve close collaboration with the various international institutions, both governmental and non-governmental, and the strengthening of partnerships, in particular with russia. in addition to the establishment of political vectors, operational issues concerning nato's own capabilities and structure have been adapted to new global threats. the adoption of a transitional plan for the nato mission in afghanistan, with the aim of the afghan authorities taking the lead in matters of national security, should also be underlined. i consider this new strategic vision, which sets out the guidelines for the international relations of the member states, to be of the utmost importance.
this legislative initiative on the control of the commission's 'executive acts' is required by the treaty of lisbon, which places this matter within the legislative competence of the european parliament. this is undeniably a positive overall result, given the current situation. but there are a number of aspects which fall short of full implementation of the lisbon treaty. among the negative aspects, two stand out. firstly, there is no deadline for the mandatory adaptation of the many existing situations to the new regime and the treaty of lisbon. i therefore signed an amendment introducing such a clause. secondly, and most importantly, the derogations provided for in the trade defence instruments (in particular anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures) are unacceptable, as they will give member states more intrusive control over the commission, making it more difficult to apply those measures and allowing them to be politicised. these measures are essential to protect european companies from competition from imports benefiting from such unlawful advantages. there is no constitutional or political basis for this discriminatory treatment of trade defence measures, which undermines the commission's (and the union's) ability to defend european industry against unfair external competition in the european internal market itself.
mr president, commissioner, this is not new, we have heard it in the debate on other reports in this parliament, we have heard it again here today: the current conception of culture in the european union is an eminently instrumental one. this has various expressions, whether in the context of so-called cultural diplomacy, which sees culture as an instrument of its foreign policy, or in the context of what is now proposed here, the creation of a heritage label of the european union, in the words of the rapporteur, to strengthen citizens' belief in the european union and its leaders and to reduce the distance between the european union and its citizens. the rapporteur has realised in good time that there are other more effective ways of achieving this, and there is much to be said about this. i am surprised to see that no single brand can erase the many marks that the policies that the eu has been developing, its economic governance and, finally, the plans for genuine social terrorism that it has set in motion with the connivance of national governments, are leaving on the citizens and peoples of europe. it is also worth taking into account the effect of policies such as the common agricultural policy or the common fisheries policy, among others, on the destruction of important cultural landmarks of the european peoples, living elements of their historical and cultural heritage. think about the de-structuring, in the course of just one generation, of coastal communities or of secular rural communities, but farther. this initiative, which is predominantly symbolic, is based on the development of a fallacy, the existence of a unique european identity and culture, and on values such as freedom, democracy, tolerance and solidarity. it does so by entering a particularly sensitive area, that of cultural heritage and, in this way, the field of history, a reason for serious concern about the feeding of disturbing processes of rewriting history, which we have seen in recent times. culture, like other historical phenomena, is not made up of any homogeneous common identity, but is rather the expression of antagonisms, conflicts and contexts of cultural domination. we also question the meaning of the designation of the european union's heritage as a trademark, which is based on the mere location of the heritage elements in question. the european union's heritage or heritage in the european union, knowing, as we do, that european heritage is indebted to many cultures and could be claimed equally by the islamic world, by mediterranean cultures or by the cultures of the peoples subject to european colonialism. i would conclude, mr president, by saying that, with a few exceptions, the amendments proposed by the rapporteur generally improve the commission's original text, but in this case the specific objectives of this report are far less relevant than the misconceptions behind it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, like our president paolo de castro, i too had the opportunity, as minister of agriculture 12 years ago, to take part in the decision which adopted the legislation we are discussing here today. it was a very long and very difficult debate because we had two conflicting values on the table: creating conditions for animal welfare and ensuring the competitiveness of the sector. the solution was to give priority to animal welfare and to allow the sector a sufficiently long period to adapt. although the new rules will not come into force for another year, the data available on farms which have not yet adapted are cause for concern, as the commissioner has confirmed. we cannot allow companies that have invested and made great efforts to be in a position to comply with the legislation to be penalized or subject to unfair competition. i am grateful for the information the commissioner has given us, but we would like to know more about the actual situation in each member state and what specific measures, in addition to those mentioned by the commissioner, the commission intends to take to ensure that companies in the sector can generally comply with this legislation by 1 january 2012, and whether there is in fact a framework of sanctions that is at least uniform across the various member states. that is the spirit of the resolution we are discussing here today, and which i am sure will have the broad support of this parliament. my group will, however, vote against the total or partial deletion of paragraphs f, 8, 9 and 14, which contain expressions and objectives which we consider to be of doubtful compatibility with community law and which, if retained, would undermine the credibility of the resolution.
mr president, commissioner, on the subject under discussion today, let me begin by reiterating what i believe: firstly, that the directives are indeed to be complied with and so is the 1999 directive; secondly, that concerns for animal welfare are a european union flag to be kept. that said, it is important to stress that the adaptation of companies in this sector to the directive is quite onerous: 30% per chicken in portugal. and there is no specific support from the rural development programme for this purpose. with the sector decapitalised, limited bank credit and widespread crisis it is imperative and urgent to recognise that these exceptional circumstances have delayed the adaptation of many companies and it is therefore important to allow extra time for those and only those who have already started the required adaptation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the original concept of the european heritage label from an intergovernmental action to a formal eu action, so as to contribute to a stronger european identity, because i believe that the intention of this label should be proposed not only with the aim of promoting the internal cohesion of the european union, but also as a sign of european unity and values across borders. the brand should be valued and put into practice after effective demonstration of results within the eu.
in writing. - one of the great riches of the european union is its cultural diversity, which is perfectly reflected in the diverse nature of its cultural, artistic, architectural and linguistic heritage. it is this diversity, combined with a rich history and a great respect for heritage and its preservation, that makes europe a unique place. but even though we all share a very rich and comparatively small space, the truth is that there is often not the closeness and interest that we could find, which is why this initiative can lead to greater closeness between european citizens and to greater knowledge of the european heritage and the common values that we all share, making europe a true union in diversity.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. but there are also some negative aspects. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur do not touch on the central aspect of promoting multilingualism, and do not correct the serious flaw in the original proposal. indeed, the real and effective promotion of multilingualism is not achieved by using several eu languages, but by using the various eu languages. but more important than the specific aims of the report are the misconceptions behind this idea. the european heritage label (or eu heritage label) is based on the development of the fallacy of the existence of a unique european identity and culture, based on values such as freedom, democracy, etc. there is no such thing as a single european cultural heritage. the whole of european cultural history, like its history in general, is not only built up of diversity and admirable creative energy and progress, but also of violent antagonistic confrontation, of intolerance, of multiple lines and contexts of cultural domination. the domain of heritage is particularly sensitive because it is closely associated with that of history, a reason for serious concern about the feeding of disturbing processes of rewriting history, which we have witnessed in recent times.
in writing. - i warmly welcome the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council to establish a european heritage label. the aim of forming a european identity and promoting the union's interests is fundamental to peace and social cohesion. the proposed measure to promote european heritage through a transnational website is inviting for young europeans, and can appeal to the best knowledge of the continent's history, to familiarity with the multinational heritage and the common cultural heritage, and to knowledge of the people and ideas that led to the construction of the european union itself. it is a high symbolic and educational value event which will present european history and culture as a whole. i support the intention expressed in the report to ensure effective involvement of the european parliament and the council in the selection of the venues and content presented in order to ensure a high degree of transparency and democratic character of the initiative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conditions for switzerland's participation in the 'youth in action' programme and the lifelong learning programme because i consider it a positive factor in the european youth strategy, as it is a step in the process of cooperation in terms of sectoral policies within the european union with switzerland. the fact that this country is willing to participate humanely, economically and socially in this project involving young people means that the european union can only gain by including young people from non-member countries, such as switzerland, in the process of raising the awareness of the younger sections of the population of the european union's integration process.
in writing. − cooperation with switzerland in the field of education is an important step in relations between the european union and switzerland. the two programmes in question support lifelong learning and the integration of young people in the construction of europe through tolerance and solidarity among young europeans. the agreement between the commission and switzerland is appropriate, given that swiss participants in these programmes apply on an equal footing with all other young europeans and that switzerland is committed to complying with european rules and their monitoring and to providing financial assistance for both programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation establishing the terms and conditions for the participation of the swiss confederation in the 'youth in action' programme and in the action programme in the field of lifelong learning (2007-2013), as i considered that the agreement negotiated by the commission with the swiss authorities was quite positive, extending the benefits of the programmes to switzerland and safeguarding the interests, including financial interests, of the european union.
in writing. − the role of the european union in defending human rights is a fundamental task which the institutions must not abdicate and which must remain a priority diplomatic task. annex i to this report is the best proof of this, since it gives an account of all the situations in which human rights have been violated and in which europe has denounced or in which we have not waived a word of condemnation, from afghanistan to somalia, from russia to iran. we did not close our eyes or bury our heads in the sand, even when it came to strategic partners, because the defence of freedom and human rights cannot be subordinated to specific interests. in my view, this must remain the union's position: to be bold and to fight for human rights and democracy.
in writing. - this report is part of a recurrent exercise of pure hypocrisy by this majority, dominated by the right and social democracy, which sees itself as an ambassador for the defence of human rights. this is an exercise which is unmasking itself by the obvious contradictions it contains, namely in the instrumentalisation of a supposed defence of human rights to promote interference in countries where its interests are at stake, whitening and supporting its allies, particularly the usa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european union's role in the world. there is the continuing occupation of afghanistan by nato forces and the successive killings of civilians under the pretext of the fight against terrorism. there is support for the continuation of israel's apartheid policy against the palestinian people and support for morocco's continuation of the occupation of western sahara. there is support for the continuation of the criminal us blockade of cuba, condemned by the united nations general assembly 18 times in a row. these policies, like the majorities who promote them, smell like breath. the time is coming when people will know how to reject them.
in writing. − this report on the annual report on human rights in the world (2009) and the european union's policy on the matter provides an exhaustive overview of human rights violations on a global scale. it is worth recalling here the european parliament's unwavering determination and its longstanding efforts to defend human rights and democracy in the world through the implementation of a firm and effective policy of defending human rights in the eu. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty opens up a historic opportunity to address the remaining gaps in eu policy on human rights and democracy. in this context, i support the rapporteur's call for the european external action service to fully comply with the objective and spirit of the lisbon treaty, namely to ensure that respect for and promotion of human rights are at the heart of the various areas of intervention in the union's external policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the new strategy for afghanistan. i believe that international aid should be channelled directly to the afghan authorities, eliminating the intermediaries. as regards the peace process, the eu's role should give the karzai government sufficient leeway in choosing partners for dialogue, insisting on the following conditions: banning al qaeda, eliminating the crops of the nightingale and a willingness to establish basic respect for fundamental human rights. as regards the vocational training of police forces, i agree with the objectives of not focusing solely on increasing the number of police and military personnel, but mainly on the training, organisation and relations of police forces with the parallel judicial institutions.
in writing. - nine years after the start of the military intervention in afghanistan, this is possibly the greatest challenge facing europe and its allies in terms of external intervention and global security. the truth is that in the last decade, despite the strong (and uninterrupted) international presence in afghanistan, security in the territory has deteriorated. the support and training of terrorists has continued and, moreover, the main socioeconomic indicators are unsatisfactory. the main objective of the international community and europe at this time must therefore be to enable the formation of a strong and stable government, and that is why the peace process must continue to be supported in accordance with the three essential commitments listed in the report: (i) afghanistan's commitment to banish al-qaeda from the country; (ii) the elimination of poppy crops and the fight against drug trafficking; (iii) the will to establish basic respect for fundamental rights. in this context, and in accordance with our international commitments under nato, the military presence in afghanistan must be progressively reduced, while maintaining international support for the maintenance of peace and security, with a view to post-intervention stabilisation.
in writing. − following the council meeting, at a joint session of the foreign and defence ministers, which discussed how to move forward with the implementation of the action plan for afghanistan and pakistan and which presented the first half-yearly implementation report, this report on a new strategy for afghanistan has been drawn up. i am in favour of a strategy aimed at protecting the population and rebuilding areas where security is guaranteed, and of all political solutions in which all parties are called to negotiate. i welcome the objective of gradually transferring security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014. i fully support parliament's call on the commission to ensure full transparency in the financial assistance provided to the afghan government, international organisations and local ngos. only a transparent process can preserve the coherence of aid and the ultimate goal of success in afghanistan's reconstruction and development.
in writing. − the new rules introduced by the treaty of lisbon as regards implementing acts have given rise to this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. this is a sensitive issue, particularly in relation to agriculture and fisheries. under the current comitology system, the cap is the policy covering the vast majority of comitology acts. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the current provisions on comitology will have to be replaced by delegated and implementing acts in accordance with articles 290 and 291 tfeu. the problem of adapting existing legislation to the provisions of the lisbon treaty is of the greatest importance, especially for policies (such as agricultural and fisheries policy) which were not adopted under the codecision procedure. only the test of the new legislation, which has been amended substantially by the european parliament and the council, can indicate whether the course taken is conducive to the effectiveness and implementation of european policies.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution because we disagree with the positions being taken on the financial problems facing the member states, without taking account of their causes and without presenting substantive measures that would lead to a full resolution. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european monetary system is fully operational, and that the european central bank is fully operational. since the european union does not want to take any of these measures, it is opting for positions which only mitigate the existing problem, but which maintain a high dependence on financial markets and the richest countries. the resolution also calls for sanctions to be imposed on member states which do not comply with the rules laid down, in particular by the stability pact, which will tend to aggravate the overall situation of the countries with the weakest economies. the interests of the great powers, such as germany, are therefore predominant, and the solidarity so much praised is still lacking.
in writing. the political situation in côte d'ivoire is deplorable at all levels. it is worrying to note that the sovereign will of the electorate is not respected and that the presidential candidate who, according to the independent electoral commission of côte d'ivoire (cei), won the elections has been prevented from taking office by the constitutional court. there were reports of serious attacks on freedom during the second round of elections, including a climate of tension and violence that caused several deaths and injuries. the political situation in côte d'ivoire is unsustainable, the attitude of the constitutional court is unacceptable and mr gbagbo's bad defeat is contrary to democracy and the principles of the rule of law.
in writing. - the serious political and institutional crisis in côte d'ivoire following the second round of the presidential elections on 28 november 2010 is the reason for this resolution. the election process, which was monitored by the un and the european union, was generally satisfactory. however, the results presented by the independent electoral commission of côte d'ivoire, which announced ouattara's victory, were refuted by the country's constitutional council which reversed the result, claiming that fraud occurred in some areas and declaring laurent gbagbo, the current president, the winner. the only source of democratic legitimacy is universal suffrage, the results of which have been certified by the un, and in this resolution, which i vote in favour of, parliament calls on mr gbagbo to resign and hand over power to alassane ouattara, and strongly condemns the acts of intimidation directed against eu observers. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action against those who obstruct the peace and national reconciliation process and supports the eu's decision to impose sanctions on laurent gbagbo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, advocating some flexibility for those who have already started this adaptation but, because of the current crisis, have not yet been able to complete it. from 1 january 2012, the use of unimproved cages for rearing laying hens shall be prohibited and this shall set out minimum standards for the protection of laying hens. it is therefore important to know whether the commission can indicate the progress made by the member states in preparing for the ban on the rearing of laying hens in conventional battery farms from 1 january 2012, what measures it will take against member states whose producers do not comply and also what measures it will take to avoid possible unfair competition from third countries on the community egg market after 1 january 2012.
in writing. − the issue raised here is fundamental, not only from the point of view of animal welfare and hygiene, but especially with regard to the need to ensure the applicability and effectiveness of directive 1999/74/ec, avoiding potential distortions of competition. it has already been demonstrated in other situations concerning animal transport that the non-application and non-compliance of certain producers and distributors with community rules creates unfair competition and market distortions. it is therefore urgent that the union should demonstrate its ability to enforce its directives throughout the union so that, while respecting the same rules, the market can operate more efficiently and without distortion.
the situation of eritrean refugees in the sinai desert is very serious, as has been described by several colleagues. obviously we must be tough in the way we deal with the human traffickers who are currently holding these refugees hostage and demanding very high ransoms from them, but we must also, at the same time, be equally protective of the refugees, because we cannot just want to be tough on the traffickers and then completely forget about the victims, and we must also recognise the reasons why they are in the sinai desert, when before their migratory route was through libya, and the agreements between italy and libya and between the european union and libya, so often presented here by the commission as good news, mean that people who come from what has been described, correctly, as a concentration camp like north korea in africa have nowhere to run. action is therefore required, not only from egypt, which is clearly doing far less than it should, but also from the european union itself. i would ask the european commission to send a delegation to egypt immediately to find out what is happening there, and we also ask all our institutions to take action, because eritreans are a clear case of resettlement, a policy which we have with the european refugee fund, and they cannot return to eritrea, they cannot stay in a transit country, the only lasting solution for them is resettlement, and you know, ladies and gentlemen, why is the resettlement package not moving forward? it is not moving forward because parliament has already done its half of the co-decision in the resettlement case in may and because of the famous delegated acts controversy the council refuses to do its part. if the resettlement package had been adopted at this stage, we would have had an urgent procedure which parliament inserted in that report of which i am the rapporteur, it was approved here by 500 votes and the european commission could have started an urgent procedure to resettle these refugees. since the council is not doing its part of what we should call a codecision process, those people are in the sinai desert for who knows how long. this co-decision process has consequences for real lives of real people and it was time for the council to get on with its half of the homework.
mr president, egypt is not just turning a blind eye to the horrific treatment and exploitation of african refugees, particularly from somalia and eritrea, who are trying to escape their countries to israel through the sinai. egypt is deporting them, despite them obviously qualifying as refugees and asylum seekers from countries, one with a terrible conflict with terrorism, with no law and order, and the other, eritrea, being one of the most oppressive, most tyrannical countries in the world. egyptian authorities are in fact practicing a take-to-kill policy and 85 migrants have already died in sinai since 2007, according to a human rights watch report. we call on the egyptian authorities to fulfil their obligations with regard to human rights and migrants and refugees in particular and to cooperate with the unhcr and we call on the european authorities to do the same and to fully support what mr rui tavares has said on this matter regarding the possibility of resettlement.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission shares the concerns of the european parliament. the reports received speak of several hundred refugees, from eritrea, ethiopia, sudan and somalia, apparently being held hostage in sinai by traffickers requesting hard payment for their release. since the first notification, we have been following the case, establishing the facts, assessing the situation and taking appropriate action. the european union delegation in cairo has close contacts with local civil-society organisations and liaises with the united nations high commissioner for refugees’ regional representation in cairo. they are very much following the case. in coordination with the embassies of the eu member states, the egyptian ministry of foreign affairs has been approached. the eu has expressed our concerns, as well as our strong belief that the egyptian authorities should take appropriate measures to liberate these people and grant them appropriate protection. there are reports of ongoing investigations to find the group of refugees, and we hope that things will be clearer in the next few days. this case is not the only cause of concern. migrants and refugees in egypt still suffer from many protection gaps. the most serious incidents are reported in the sinai. many migrants intending to cross to israel via the sinai border are subject to abuse and mistreatment. we have raised this issue several times with our egyptian counterparts in the framework of the regular subcommittee meetings discussing either migration issues or political affairs, including human rights. the latest occasion when the point was raised was at the meeting of the eu-egypt association committee on 14 december in cairo. the eu has regularly invited egyptian authorities to improve the quality of the assistance and protection offered to asylum seekers and refugees, and has offered financial and technical assistance in this endeavour. the eu has also invited the egyptian authorities to ensure that the principle of non-refoulement is observed for all migrants in need of international protection, including eritreans. the eu has asked that the unhcr be given full authorisation to implement its mandate throughout the entire territory of egypt, including in the sinai region. there have been some positive developments that should be stressed. in the spring of this year, egypt adopted new legislation criminalising human trafficking and also protecting its victims. another welcome development was the adoption of a transplant act, which criminalises organ trafficking. we hope that the egyptian administration will now take effective measures to ensure efficient implementation of this legal framework, and we have offered our cooperation in this field. we will continue to support the work of the unhcr and civil-society organisations to ensure better living conditions, as well as proper legal protection, for migrants and refugees living in the country. we will continue to follow with care the case of the hostage refugees in sinai and we will pursue our contacts with the egyptian authorities in this regard. i truly hope for an early solution to this case and i regret the reported loss of eight lives so far.
mr president, the commissioner has read his well-prepared answer as if no-one had addressed the commission with particular points.
mr president, of course it is a point of order. we particularly asked the commission to indicate if it would send a delegation to egypt to see the situation on the ground. the commission could at least ask for the completion of the resettlement. codecision will give you power... (the president cut off the speaker)
