iceland has been in the news in recent weeks because earlier this year, the president of iceland vetoed the icesave legislation and decided to put it to a referendum. this decision caused a backlash from the british and dutch governments. i think this dispute is strictly bilateral and it should not influence iceland's eu accession process. in my view, the commission should clearly state its position on the implications that the adoption or rejection of the icesave legislation will have on iceland's fulfilment of the economic criteria formulated by the copenhagen european council.
the lisbon strategy calls for the eu to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. here we are in 2010: the objectives of the strategy are far from being achieved, and the eu is facing its deepest economic crisis since 1933. even if the objectives have not been achieved, they must remain a priority on the european union's agenda. the spanish presidency, through prime minister zapatero, has assured us that the objectives of the strategy will be pursued, with a deadline of 2020. it is unacceptable that after this date, we should wait another decade to reach the expected results. one of the key points of the strategy is investment in education and research. no economy in the world can develop without an educated society, which is why i believe that funding education systems must be a european priority. i denounce here today the shortsighted policy of governments to cut education budgets, because not only do they harm society today, but they create problems in the long run. i also wish to announce the submission of a written statement which will be open for signature from the next sitting. (the president cut off the speaker)
i appreciate that the spanish presidency is taking on, through the programme it proposes, projects to strengthen and transform the european union through innovation and legitimisation. however, i regret that the spanish presidency's programme does not contain any concrete reference to inland waterways, in particular the rhine-main-danube axis, although during the previous year the european commission committed itself to developing a strategy for the danube in 2010. i am aware that there are many other priorities for the spanish presidency to address: the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and changes in case law, institutional transformation, managing crisis mitigation and resuming sustainable growth. however, i believe that transport infrastructure, and in particular inland waterway infrastructure, including the danube, and multimodality, are practical and viable ways of ensuring sustainable development and new jobs, and for this reason i believe that the absence of such an element in the spanish presidency's programme is a shortcoming that urgently needs to be remedied.
three years after joining the european union, romanians and bulgarians do not enjoy full rights as european citizens. although the free movement of labour is a fundamental principle of the european construction, ten member states still maintain barriers for romanian and bulgarian citizens. the extension of restrictions on access to internal labour markets was decided despite the recommendation of the european commission that the mobility of eastern european workers had not disrupted labour markets and had driven economic growth. unfortunately, the economic crisis is now being used as an argument for keeping these restrictions in place, citing domestic unemployment and the pressure exerted by immigrants on labour markets. however, the reality is that the possible consequences of the influx of labour from the new member states are being exaggerated and that the persistence of barriers is also preventing the full potential of the labour force to emerge from the current crisis and to relaunch the european economy from being used. i therefore hope that the new european commission will take stronger action against these protectionist measures which discriminately restrict the free movement of labour within the european union.
indeed, the world is now showing solidarity and compassion for the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in haiti, underscoring once again the need for timely and coordinated action in such situations. loss control now depends on the effectiveness of the intervention and, as has been said here, the way in which international bodies and organisations, the eu's humanitarian aid department and individual member states have acted has been exemplary. i believe that the creation of a european union rapid reaction force is necessary, because the situation in haiti shows that in addition to the necessary assistance to the survivors, it is necessary to maintain public order and ensure the security of the population. of course, we are today in a situation where many voices protest and accuse the so-called intention of a military occupation under the guise of humanitarian aid, but in a situation where un forces are not enough or are outnumbered, the european union should be more involved, especially since it enjoys a high credibility in the area. i believe that we, as the european union, must be at the forefront of a broad reconstruction process in haiti, in parallel with the promotion of the stabilisation of the state structures, and of course compassion for the hard-hit inhabitants is very important, including finding concrete solutions to ease the adoption procedures for children orphaned by this catastrophe and to provide concrete help to the hard-hit population.
i have decided to use most of my time for this intervention to highlight the names of people who, reportedly, are in detention in iran, some convicted to death, for criticising the political regime or for defending civil rights. ali mehrnia, parviz varmazyari, majid rezaii, alireza nabavi, ali massoumi and shirin alavi holi are reportedly being detained and subject to the death penalty for ‘mohareb’, which means enmity against god. thirty-three women belonging to the mourning mothers of iran, whose children have been killed, disappeared or detained in post-election violence, are being harassed. other women activists and their families are detained: atefeh nabavi, shabnam madadzadeh, mahsa naderi, fatemeh ziaee azad and nazila dashti. eight activists from the committee of human rights reporters are detained: saeed kalanaki, saeed jalalifar, shiva nazar-ahari, kouhyar goudarzi, saeed haeri, parisa kakayi and mehrdad rahimi. four others went into hiding after being summoned to the ministry of intelligence: hesam misaghi, saeed habibi, navid khanjani and sepeher atefi. others from the liberal student and alumni association are detained: mehrdad bozorg, ehsan dolatshah and sina shokohi. what these people have in common is to have reported on, or voiced, their concerns about the situation in iran. what is the commission or the council going to do for the release of those imprisoned for political purposes? what funding does the commission provide to human rights ngos working on iran?
personally, i believe there is great potential for close economic, cultural and political relations between iran and the european union. however, this potential is not being exploited. relations between iran and the european union face major difficulties when sensitive issues such as iran's nuclear programme or human rights are involved. i believe that the iranian side must respond to the european union's desire for communication; refusal to engage in dialogue can only limit the transfer of ideas and knowledge on subjects of mutual interest. i would remind you that the european union is iran's number one trading partner and, given iran's goal of joining the world trade organization, a closer trade partnership with the european union would help iran in its quest to meet the organization's standards. but as long as the iranian side is not open to cooperation, there can be no constructive dialogue between iran and the european union.
the failed attack on the amsterdam-detroit flight on 25 december was actually only a revealing event; it brought the gravity of the situation in yemen to the attention of the international community because, as is well known, there are not one but three conflicts in yemen. in addition to fighting the separatist movement in the south, the conflict in saada province in the north has been reignited by the offensive launched almost half a year ago by government forces against the shiite rebels al-huthi and by the airstrikes conducted against al-qaeda bases. the humanitarian situation, as the secretary-general of the united nations mentioned on january 5, is very worrying and risks worsening if none of these conflicts is stopped. in the run-up to the international conference in london next week, i believe the european union must promote a coordinated response to ensure the stability of this country, which would also contribute to international security. the road to a unified, stable and democratic yemen, in my view, lies in the development of a coherent plan to increase military and economic support, the fight against terrorism must be matched by clear measures in favour of economic development of this country. thank you, sir.
the preparations for the legislative and presidential elections on 7 march have created a feverish climate for the formation of new coalitions and alliances. some opponents of the iraqi prime minister want to restore old alliances, like the united iraqi coalition. the prime minister, on the other hand, is trying to attract secular groups or independent candidates to the rule of law coalition. it should be remembered, however, that after these legislative and presidential elections, the government will have to organize the referendum on kirkuk. it is very likely that the security situation in iraq will deteriorate if they are challenged by some iraqi groups or if there is internal conflict. the main problems facing the authorities in baghdad are the postponement of the referendum on the sofa agreement with the us and the finalization of the oil law, the fall in the price of oil, the high number of executions (currently 900 people are sentenced to death) and the use of torture to extract confessions. the overall deterioration of the human rights situation is of full concern to the eu. and last but not least, the rise of corruption -- and i want to give you an example of that: the arrest of the former iraqi trade minister. in relations with iraq, romania aims to move from military security contribution to civil security involvement. my country has demonstrated that it is committed to its partners by maintaining its military presence in iraq until the mission is complete.
member of the commission. − mr president, i appreciate very much the interest that you take in the second revision of the cotonou agreement. it is also with great interest that i read the report of the development committee, which provides a shrewd analysis on the matters at stake. throughout the whole process, it is a priority for us to keep parliament informed, as we have done over the last months. the negotiations have gained momentum and are now entering into the final phase, and the next joint ambassadorial meeting will prove the value of these discussions. we will be heading for an extraordinary joint ministerial meeting to conclude the negotiations in march, as foreseen by the cotonou agreement. let me now share with you some observations on the report. above all, the report has already proven helpful in upholding certain positions of the eu. just to name some of them: your position on strengthening national acp parliaments, on the international criminal court and on other human rights issues confirmed our negotiation position. likewise, the importance that you attach to climate change and food security is shared by us and will be reflected in the final outcome. i would like to focus on four items, starting with the importance of the parliamentary dimension as embodied in the joint parliamentary assembly, to which the report attaches great importance. the commission is committed to strengthening the parliamentary dimension in the cotonou agreement. therefore, our intention is not to weaken the jpa. on the contrary, the commission proposal must be seen in the broader context of growing parliamentary oversight functions, in particular with a view to existing and future economic partnership agreements (epas) and edf programmes. we should ensure maximum synergy between epa and cotonou institutions, including between regional jpa meetings and the epa parliamentary bodies. in this emerging setting, a reduction of plenary jpa meetings would make sense. the commission accepts, however, that this matter needs to be agreed with those who are most concerned, and is therefore open to reconsidering its position. at the same time, we would be interested to learn more from parliament how it sees the jpa’s role and functioning in a changing political and institutional environment. the establishment of epas does not only call for the need to ensure synergy between them and the cotonou institutions, but also requires an update of the cotonou trade provisions, since the cotonou trade regime has become obsolete. we have agreed with acp partners that we will continue the negotiations towards regional european partnership agreements. in this context, as development commissioner, i would stress that it is neither politically desirable nor legally feasible to incorporate eu unilateral trade regimes such as gsp or gsp+ in cotonou, as suggested in the draft report, since these depend on autonomous eu schemes. by contrast, the commission welcomes the call for cotonou to give more attention to the trade and development issues in general and to aid for trade in particular. in your report, you express the concern that the conclusion of epas and increased regionalisation might undermine the coherence of the acp group. the commission believes that regional differentiation within the framework of cotonou is more an opportunity than a threat. regional integration is crucial for the development of acp countries and we need to integrate this reality into cotonou to better support their own efforts towards this objective. this by no means signifies disrupting the acp group, and our acp partners largely share this approach. let me now briefly comment on sectoral policies which you are stressing in your report. we fully share the importance of climate change and renewable energies which are already included in the present revision exercise. likewise, we will address food security in the regional dimension. you also stress the importance of good governance in tax matters and in the fiscal area. good governance is a fundamental principle of the cotonou agreement. building on article 9 of the cotonou agreement, the commission is currently preparing a new policy on good governance in tax matters in the context of development cooperation. we are also seeking to address these aspects in the ongoing revision exercise. therefore, i can confirm that we share the same objective with you, which is to create fair, effective and growth-enhancing tax systems and effective tax administrations, as well as to strengthen the participation of developing countries in international tax processes. finally, i take note that you deplore that the commission has not consulted a wider variety of actors before launching the revision process – paragraphs 2 and 8 – and i fully agree that, for the future of the acp-eu relations post-2020, a comprehensive consultation process is needed, possibly in the form of a green paper. we will have to assess the results of the present revision exercise as a basis for this as a form of lessons learnt.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to start by congratulating ms joly on the preparation of this report. the themes addressed are very important to ensure that the cotonou agreement remains the basis of a solid partnership with the acp countries and also a relevant instrument in the context of the new challenges facing these countries. the negotiations are taking place in a context which is, as we know, difficult and complex. on the one hand, the acp countries are deeply affected by the economic and financial crisis, but also by food insecurity and the consequences of climate change, on the other hand, there is an institutional challenge for all parties to the negotiations to reflect adequately the tendencies towards regionalisation in the acp-eu relationship. we must now ensure that the revised text contains all the necessary ingredients for effective development cooperation, capable of contributing to the achievement of the millennium development goals in the acp countries. i also want to emphasize that i have tabled five amendments on behalf of the ppe. they allow, in my view, a more nuanced reading of some of the proposals in the report. for example, in paragraph 29, it's important to emphasize the concept of ownership, in relation to arable land. as regards the creation of a mechanism forcing transnational companies to declare their profits, i believe that this should be set up at international level. in paragraph 25, a clear reference to a coherent approach to food security in the framework of the union's development policy is important. finally, in paragraph 31, the position expressed on readmission agreements with third countries does not correspond to the view of the epp group.
the report under discussion today addresses many of the problems of food security in the acp states. in my view, we cannot talk about this subject without taking into account some of the realities of european agriculture. the european union can and indeed must play the role of a regulator on global markets. if europe were to reduce its agricultural output, increased food imports would contribute significantly to an overall increase in food prices. it is therefore imperative that the levels of food production in the european union be kept constant in the interest of europeans, but also in the interest of the citizens of the acp states and beyond. i therefore believe that these issues of food security for the poorer countries are also closely linked to the future of the european common agricultural policy.
in writing. the second revision of the cotonou agreement is an opportunity to assess the areas left open to incorrect or inefficient moves and, respectively, the time when corrections can be made to the agreement in the light of developments in the process of globalisation. the challenges posed by economic and social events such as the economic and financial crisis, armed conflicts, the challenges posed by the negative population health trend such as the increase in the number of infections with communicable diseases (tb, aids, malaria) and the increase in the number of victims of violence or natural disasters, as well as the uncontrollable challenges posed by climate change, are exacerbating the need to fortify the population of developing countries against systemic social deficiencies. this implies, among other things, that development cooperation offers should be better focused on key elements in the field of public health and education. i therefore consider it essential to address these issues more clearly by strengthening title i - development strategy - of part 3 of the agreement.
acting president of the council. - i am grateful that this question has been put by mrs ludford, who has spoken before, by mrs antonescu, mrs romero and mrs hautala and mr tavares, because we are indeed dealing with a very important issue, namely procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings. in this respect, i would like to say that we agree with the assessment of the importance of this matter, which has been made by the honourable member, and we also agree that this must be harmonised at european level. in your question you first point out that the swedish presidency has made important progress. the swedish presidency has indeed made important progress in this respect. the council agreed on a general approach to the text on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and a month later - in october - in november, the council adopted a plan to take further steps, as requested by the honourable member, in the field of procedural guarantees. some of them you have mentioned, mrs ludford, such as the right to information on the rights to 'overcome redundancy' and on the position of a person in criminal proceedings, on assistance, legal advice, on communication with relatives and with consular authorities or on the special safeguards to be had and the protection of accused persons who are vulnerable. this is the case with the council during the swedish presidency. you then say: 'well, is there an agreement with the european parliament to continue this work as a priority? we say to them: yes, it is a priority to continue along that line. how did you do that? what initiatives? the first thing the spanish presidency will do is to try to get the directive on interpretation and translation rights in criminal proceedings, which has been launched by 13 member states, adopted, working with the european parliament. it was not possible to continue with the initiative presented by the commission and thirteen member states have replaced it. we want this initiative to be adopted in collaboration, of course, with the european parliament. and we also expect the commission to take appropriate initiatives in the other areas of procedural guarantees. we are very keen to see that this is done as soon as possible so that we can once again go ahead with the council and the european parliament in approving them. i would like to conclude by saying that the spanish presidency is planning to organise a seminar in madrid next march, together with the commission and the european law academy, on the subject of common standards for procedural guarantees. this shows, mrs ludford, how much we share with you and with the people who have signed this question the urgency of regulating these matters, of harmonizing them at european level and, of course, of keeping the european parliament always informed of the progress of the work.
the commission's vice-president - thank you for asking. you know how much i value these procedural safeguards. it is true that the commission has been campaigning for many years for the minimum common standards on the rights of the defence to be truly generalized in all criminal proceedings in europe. this is necessary for judicial cooperation and is the condition for the indispensable mutual trust between the member states. the commission has worked hard to get european legislation in this area adopted. and it is true that, thanks to the swedish presidency, the roadmap was adopted by the council on 30 november 2009. this is a fundamental step in the creation of european legislation on minimum procedural rights. the member states reached agreement on the scope of this legislation and agreed on the need to adopt it as a matter of priority in full collaboration with the european parliament. i have just listened, as you have, to minister lópez garrido, who has explained very well how the spanish presidency is also converging on this desire to adopt these first measures which are leading us towards a set of minimum guarantees. it is true that the step-by-step approach to the road map has finally seemed to us a good solution. this approach is likely to achieve the objective pursued. the step-by-step approach means not only that each right can be analysed in greater depth in the context of the legislative proposal, but also that in the negotiation each right can be examined individually. this avoids the cross-purchase which sometimes characterizes legislation that is too general and which can allow some member states to take negotiation hostage in order to gain an advantage on a very specific point. so, mrs ludford, i am sure that the new commission will work as quickly as possible to bring forward all the legislative proposals set out in the road map and to get them adopted as soon as possible. as regards the right to interpretation and translation, which is the first measure provided for in the road map, the commission took note of the initiative put forward by a number of member states. this initiative, i should say, is based on the commission's proposal of july 2009 and on the negotiations in the council during the second half of 2009. but it is true that the initiative of the member states is not in full conformity with the european convention on human rights, with the case law of the court of strasbourg. the commission's previous proposal, which made interpretation of meetings between the accused and his counsel compulsory, is not fully followed by the member states' initiative, which limits this right to communications taking place before the police authorities and during the trial. in addition, the commission's old proposal provided for a right to translation, a more complete right in the commission's text. of course, there will be work between the european parliament and the council and i think we can get an ambitious text on procedural rights. this is essential if we are to create a genuine european judicial area. and we will ensure that the text is in conformity with the standards laid down in the european convention on human rights and the case law of the strasbourg court as well as in the charter of fundamental rights. so i am sure that we can count on parliament's action in this area and, once again, i note that the spanish presidency will also help us.
on behalf of the epp group. although progress has been made in the area of mutual recognition of criminal judgments, little has been done to guarantee and secure the rights of the accused and the defendant. the importance of common standards is an essential condition for mutual trust in the legal systems of the member states. the lack of balance between the rights of the accused and the defendant, on the one hand, and the means at the disposal of the prosecution, on the other, may jeopardise the principle of mutual recognition of judgments. the swedish presidency's initiative in july 2009 to present a roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons was therefore a very important step. as regards the right to translation and interpretation, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december required the establishment of a new institutional framework. the draft framework decision under discussion in the libe committee had to be transformed into a proposal for a directive to allow further work on the dossier. we were concerned about the timing and scope of the future initiatives on procedural rights, and so we decided to put these questions to the commission and the council. shortly after their submission in december, 13 member states, including romania, presented an initiative for a european parliament and council directive. i am confident that throughout the process we will be able to improve this text both in terms of scope and in terms of ensuring the correctness of procedures and the quality of translation and interpretation. as regards the other measures set out in the roadmap, we consider that they concern ensuring access to rights such as legal advice and assistance, the establishment of special safeguards for vulnerable suspects or accused persons, information on their rights and on costs. we want clear commitments from the council and the commission that regulatory proposals are to be put forward as soon as possible. the differences between member states at present make it necessary to adopt common standards as a matter of urgency.
in writing. the speed with which this debate was launched shortly after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is not only a legislative opportunity but also an imperative dictated by a reality exacerbated by the economic crisis. poverty, job loss, lack of perspective for young women, lack of proper risk information, and lack of basic sex education are some of the factors that contribute decisively to the vulnerability of potential victims. i believe that an intensive information campaign is needed, especially among the minors in the areas and the disadvantaged groups, in order to increase the effectiveness of preventive actions. we cannot talk about the concrete fight against trafficking in women without taking strong measures to combat criminal activity, the networks that control this trafficking, which is very intense in the balkans and the mediterranean. i stress that measures are needed to discourage demand in the area of prostitution, the most direct way being to adopt measures to punish clients. i also mention the need for better funding for programmes to combat trafficking in human beings. i call for the adoption of strong punitive legislation and for closer cooperation between the member states and the competent european institutions: europol, frontex, eurojust.
in writing. the united nations estimated that there were around 270 000 victims of trafficking in 2009 in the european union. the european union must commit itself in the near future to coming up with legislative instruments covering both the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings and the protection of the rights of trafficked persons. future european legislation will have to review the level of penalties for traffickers so that they are proportionate to the seriousness of the offence. international judicial cooperation, cooperation between child protection institutions and human rights actors, the establishment of specific means to ensure compensation and effective protection of victims are other areas that need to be strengthened. i also believe that eurojust, europol and frontex should be more involved in combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims and collecting data and producing statistics on this phenomenon.
mr president, the spanish presidency is the first to take place under the new lisbon treaty. here is the first challenge. we have the treaty, but we need its proper enhancement and even more than that. the european social pact and european economic governance might be part of this ‘more’, but all these parts require more european financial resources and harmonisation of member state tax policies. unfortunately, such endeavours have always been undermined by national governments. i hope that the spanish presidency will be able to bring them together more than in the past. the spanish presidency should cope with the two main contradictions of the european union: the contradiction between pan-european needs and european national egoists, and the contradiction between the level of development in the western territories of the union and that in the eastern territories, with their consequences in terms of political sensitivity. there is a political sensitivity which is different in the two parts. there is a sense of the need for more europe, which is slightly different in the two parts following social and economic cleavages. i hope that the spanish presidency will be able to cope with this. these really are challenges which again require more common resources and better political coherence. i therefore think that we not only need to read the treaty, which is very right and gives us possibilities for more coherence, but also to provide... (the president cut off the speaker.)
first of all, i hope that, despite the rather general nature of the programme, the spanish presidency will have achieved concrete results by the end of june. i welcome the fact that the presidency is concerned with developing the european research area and ensuring the mobility of researchers. however, with restrictions on the labour market, this will be difficult to achieve. i hope that the informal meeting of labour ministers later this month will produce concrete results in this respect. the programme also includes the revision of the ten-t guidelines. it is desirable that the review also takes into account the future danube strategy which, although not directly mentioned in the presidency programme, is a commitment of the european commission for 2010. in the energy field, the european energy efficiency action plan is to be improved and the energy action plan 2010-2014 adopted. as regards the first, i think the review should include a proposal on financial resources, in particular for energy efficiency in buildings. the european economic recovery plan included the european union's participation in the financing of the nabucco pipeline. it is in the interest of the european union that this funding be continued in the energy action plan 2010-2014. as regards the eastern partnership, it is noted that the european union's relations with ukraine are very important. i would therefore ask you not to lose sight of the south caucasus, an important alternative energy source for the european union, nor of the republic of moldova, which is in great need of the union's help in this period of transition to democracy.
in writing. i was part of the afet delegation that prepared the priorities of the spanish presidency in madrid in october 2009. knowing these objectives, i noticed common points with those of romania. the major interest of the spanish presidency is the mediterranean area, which can also bring important benefits to romania. romanian firms will have the opportunity to return to markets in the mediterranean area (in countries such as algeria, turkey, syria and egypt). the major common objective is to ensure the energy security of the european union, with romania having on its agenda: nabucco, the pan-european constanta-trieste oil pipeline, interconnection with the gas networks of the neighbouring states: romania-hungary (arad-szeget), romania-bulgaria (giurgiu-ruse), isaccea and negru vodă. i also believe that the spanish presidency should pay particular attention to the eastern partnership countries. for romania, a major political objective is that the republic of moldova should be included in the western balkan group of countries from the perspective of accession. on 12 january 2010, negotiations for the signing of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova started in chisinau. moldova now needs financial and political support. this should be a priority for both the current presidency and the next presidencies.
in writing. i would like to draw the attention of the spanish presidency to a number of issues which i consider to be a priority and which i believe should be addressed in the coming months. patient rights in cross-border healthcare must be a priority as equal rights for all european patients are needed. i ask the presidency to make efforts to resolve the situation at council level with regard to this dossier. i also ask the presidency to support the directive on information to patients on prescription medicines, which the council opposes. maintaining the status quo in this area is not in the interest of patients or the pharmaceutical industry. the eu's economic crisis requires support for the business environment, especially in the new member states which are experiencing serious problems in this respect. i believe that supporting smes is an absolute imperative in this respect. the spanish presidency needs to show firm support for the directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions, a directive that is essential for smes. i wish the spanish presidency much success in achieving its priorities and in finding solutions to the challenges facing the union at the moment!
in writing. the current spanish presidency has the important task of drawing up the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme. among the most important objectives, this plan must cover the whole range of issues relating to immigration and asylum, border control and security, the fight against organised crime and terrorism. in short, to ensure the security of eu citizens. achieving these objectives will require in future even greater exchange of information between the institutions and specialised bodies, as well as the strengthening of the community database, i.e. the continuous collection of personal data of citizens. however, a balance must be maintained between ensuring security and respecting citizens' rights to privacy. it is necessary to promote consensus among member states in order to find a reasonable balance between the two objectives. respect for fundamental human rights must be the central objective of all european policies and be given the utmost attention by the three countries holding the eu presidency for the next 18 months.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the fact that the spanish presidency has made it a priority to guarantee the european union's energy security. to this end, it is essential to diversify gas supply sources through the timely completion of the nabucco project. after the signing of the intergovernmental agreement on nabucco, the european union must act. i would like to stress that relations with the eastern partnership countries must be one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. in this context, i believe it is important to give strong political support to the successful conclusion of the recently started negotiations between the eu and the republic of moldova. these negotiations should lead to the signing of an association agreement, which would mark a significant step forward in the implementation of european values in this european state in the eu's immediate neighbourhood. i believe it is essential to send a positive signal to the citizens of the republic of moldova, who, in their majority, voted in favour of the 'coalition for european integration' in the 2009 elections.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the spanish presidency is taking on agriculture as a priority, which is really the most important objective of this period: continuing the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy, adapting the common agricultural policy to the changing realities of today's europe. i also noted other important ideas on the spanish presidency's agenda: ensuring sufficient resources for european agriculture, continuing the process of eliminating milk quotas in line with the results of the 'health check'. last but not least, i welcome the discussions already opened at the first meeting of the agriculture and fisheries council on monday on improving the functioning of the food chain, in order to control price fluctuations and ensure a fairer distribution of surplus value throughout the food chain. all these objectives are ambitious and at the same time of fundamental importance to european citizens.
in writing. the spanish presidency is to finalise the institutional arrangements for implementing the lisbon treaty. the definition of new rules for comitology is an essential element for the legislative process. there are several files, including the energy efficiency of buildings directive and the intelligent transport systems directive, whose adoption depends on the speed with which these rules for institutional cooperation will be established. the economic crisis is also having a serious impact on european citizens who are losing their jobs and are hoping to define actions to allow economic recovery. the eu2020 strategy must respond to these expectations, and that is why the troika of the spanish, belgian and hungarian eu presidencies must strengthen social europe by creating jobs and improving the living conditions of european citizens. last but not least, 2010 marks the middle of the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. this year, member states have a unique opportunity to review their operational programmes to maximise the absorption of european funds, to implement projects that can create jobs and improve the quality of life of european citizens. i ask the spanish presidency, together with all member states, to bring the mid-term review for the economic recovery in 2012-13 to fruition.
in writing. − i welcome the re-election of nikiforos diamandouros as european ombudsman for a further term until 2014 and i also welcome the fact that the main objectives of the ombudsman's work are: to ensure that citizens of the european union will benefit from the benefits and resources of the lisbon treaty, and to enhance better cooperation with national and regional ombudsmen, thereby ensuring greater transparency of the work at european level.
in writing. − the temporary suspension of common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products from the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores is intended to provide investors with a long-term perspective and to enable economic operators to achieve a certain level of industrial and commercial activity. as a socialist, i believe that these measures should be maintained as long as these regions are facing serious economic difficulties. i welcome the commission's proposal because its adoption will lead to both the stabilisation of employment in the medium term and the economic and social environment in these outermost regions of europe, which are facing specific problems. but i cannot fail to draw attention to the risks involved in temporarily suspending customs duties on products from such countries, which is why we must monitor closely the impact of this suspension on competition.
in writing. − it is important that all aspects of the cotonou agreement are reviewed in the light of recent developments which are having a significant impact on acp countries. but i would particularly like to add my voice to the concerns about regional integration, which is relevant not just to acp countries but also to latin american countries and particularly the andean community. the effect of some trade agreements (agreements which are, according to commission officials, supposed to promote development) can be to jeapodise trade between countries in a given region and therefore run contrary to the stated development objective of promoting regional integration. the european union must constantly re-evaluate its trade policies and the impact they have in this regard. failure to do so, or to act appropriately, risks negative effects on long-term development.
as expected, the copenhagen summit has not produced any concrete results, but we have a clear view of global warming and the need for action. the european union must continue its efforts at foreign policy level, in particular its talks with the united states and china. we should be able to achieve positive results; we have both foreign policy and climate change commissioners. until then, the union's actions, even unilateral ones, must continue. i hope that at the informal meeting in seville in january, the environment ministers will take a pragmatic approach to the copenhagen outcome and look at climate change in the context of the future energy action plan for 2010-14. the third package of internal energy market measures also needs to be coordinated with the copenhagen accord in order to achieve energy security, promote renewable energy, and capture and store carbon dioxide.
unlike other regions of the world, the european union understands and takes a leading role in the fight against climate change. at the same time, the large attendance at the copenhagen meeting gives me hope that the efforts of so many allies will eventually succeed. although the conclusions of the summit were not what we expected, i believe that our involvement at different levels will lead to the desired results. we need to promote more investment programmes in our states, both in renewable energy, but also in areas with direct implications for climate change. i am referring here to both small projects, such as technical assistance for local energy, and large projects with regional coverage, such as selective waste management and recycling or the rehabilitation and extension of water and sewerage networks and systems.
in writing. being a politician means being able to predict what's going to happen tomorrow, next week, next month, next year. and then to be able to explain why none of this ever happened. winston churchill said. in light of the copenhagen conference, we are all good politicians. the road to a new climate agreement was paved with political optimism, but the negotiations have shown that optimism and respect for the environment are european rather than global values. the fact that the outcome of the copenhagen conference was a disappointment, that both our expectations and those of the citizens were not met, should motivate us and make us more involved and more united at the forthcoming summit in mexico in the autumn. europe must learn to be an active player and negotiator and speak with one voice.
in writing. the copenhagen summit on the environment was characterised by many as a resounding failure, as it resulted in a vague agreement with no clear assumptions or deadlines. however, if we look more closely at what happened in the danish capital, we see that here the foundations of a new world climate order have been laid, but it will take years and years of hard work and negotiations to get there. 115 heads of state and government met for the first time to discuss climate change. it's an important signal, and the fact that the summit was held under the un umbrella shows that even developing and under-industrialized countries are realizing that they need to play an active role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the importance of bilateral talks between major industrialized and developing countries has increased, especially in the light of the upcoming environmental summit in mexico. the eu is well placed to play an important role in bilateral talks with countries such as china, india and brazil. it's time that no effort is too great when it comes to the future of the planet we all share.
in writing. for a month now, "failure" has been the most commonly used word to describe the copenhagen summit. the unsatisfactory outcome of the summit was due both to the reluctance of the major industrialized countries and to the complicated rules of the un consensus system. the european union's inability to act as a catalyst for global efforts to limit the effects of climate change should also be examined. by unilaterally announcing, a year before this conference, its intention to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, the eu had the moral high ground to give impetus to the copenhagen negotiations. but we were unable to make our voices heard in a meeting dominated by the us and emerging countries. a smaller format is needed to hope for a negotiated outcome. the ministerial meetings in bonn and mexico in june and december must be used as effectively as possible to leave the way open for the adoption of a new treaty. member states need to coordinate so that we can speak with one voice internationally.
in writing. the european union must remain engaged in the international negotiations for the adoption of a post-kyoto agreement. it is clear that the conclusion of a new global post-kyoto agreement requires a thorough evaluation and preparation of the eu negotiating strategy, with a view to continuing the negotiations in 2010. although it cannot be considered a success and is far from what the european union wanted, the copenhagen conclusions represent a step towards the conclusion of a legally binding post-kyoto international agreement. the eu's efforts in the immediate period ahead must focus on diplomatic efforts to secure commitments from all relevant international partners, in particular the us, china and india, so that the global target of limiting temperature rise to 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels can be met. we must be aware that the eu's commitment to increase the level of emission reductions by 30% by 2020 is conditional on comparable or proportionate commitments by third countries.
in writing. one month after the climate change conference we can take stock. the copenhagen accord was negotiated and concluded with great difficulty, and was almost a total failure. the compromise that was hardly accepted was only to take note. although the eu has set itself concrete and ambitious targets, they have not led to similar behaviour from other partners. it should be noted, however, that all the major economic and political powers of the world have come together to debate and take responsibility for combating climate change: the objective of keeping the global warming gradient at 2°c has been recognised and financial support of $30 billion for 2010-2012 (fast start financing) and $100 billion by 2020 has been agreed. this appropriation is intended to finance climate change mitigation and adaptation measures for the least developed and vulnerable countries. i believe that the future commission, especially since there will also be a commissioner for climate change and action, must carefully assess all reduction proposals commitments made by the countries party to the convention, the united nations and also prepare negotiations so that at cop 16 - mexico 2010 , a legally binding agreement can be concluded.
in writing. – most of us have rightly expressed disappointment at the outcome of the copenhagen summit and the failure to reach a legally binding agreement. some progress has been made, however. for example, the creation of the copenhagen green climate fund will provide financing for poorer countries to adapt to climate change and to develop clean energy, and the formal acceptance by emerging economies that they have co-responsibility makes a concrete commitment from these countries more likely in the near future. the eu must continue to play a leading role in the absence of a legally binding agreement. the commissioner-designate for climate action has expressed commitment to an international agreement on the protection of tropical forests, the inclusion of road transport and shipping in the ets, and the linking of eu and us cap-and-trade systems, which would represent a crucial step in international cooperation for global emission reductions. we should continue to develop and implement our own climate legislation as other countries work towards theirs. our work with international organisations and partner countries in the coming months will increase the chances of more meaningful progress at the next conference in mexico.
acting president of the council. - as regards the first question, on serbia, of course serbia is certainly the strongest country in the western balkans, which must always be taken into account in any policy, in this case from a european perspective, such as the european union's policy towards the western balkans. in fact, there is a recent agreement, as you will know, on visa liberalisation with regard to serbia and, recently also, as a consequence of the unblocking of the interim association agreement with serbia, there has been a formal submission by serbia of its application for accession to the european union. we are in favour of the community rules being applied whenever that happens, of the commission studying them, of a technical opinion being issued and of a decision being taken in due course as to whether it is really possible to start negotiations on access by fulfilling the so-called copenhagen requirements. so, of course, serbia is a country which has a clear weight in the region and which, in our view, has a european perspective. the majority - at present unanimous - of the council has been in favour of unblocking the interim association agreement with serbia, which has already entered into force. in relation to kosovo, you ask me, mr president, about a matter which has to do with internal politics, with internal decisions of the spanish government. you know that in this case i am here representing the council, not a particular country, but the council and therefore in this case, regardless of whether i have a specific figure here, which i can hardly have in relation to this figure to which you refer, it does not seem to me appropriate that in this case i speak on behalf of a country, because i am speaking on behalf of the council of the union, a body of the union which represents twenty-seven countries.
acting president of the council. - the council strongly agrees with you, mr jim higgins, that agriculture and deforestation are factors affecting co2 emissions into the atmosphere. it is not easy to say which of these two factors has the greatest impact. that is more of a scientific debate than a political one, but in any case, action in both areas must be taken simultaneously and has always been so. in the case of sustainable agriculture, progress has always been made in both areas. this has even led to changes in the european union's rural development policy. within the review of the cap reform, it is being taken into account to meet the challenges of mitigation and adaptation to climate change and within, as you know, an evolution of european policy, which considers the common agricultural policy as an important part, to be taken into account in relation to the wider policy of combating climate change. as early as 2008, the council supported the commission's approaches to deforestation and the commission proposed that the forest mass, which is constantly being lost on a net basis, be stopped at that loss by 2030 at the latest and that massive tropical deforestation be reduced by at least 50% by 2020 compared to current levels. it is therefore necessary to help promote sustainable forest management. the european union's action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade, which foresees, for example, the creation of a legal framework to prevent the importation into the european union of illegally harvested timber, is a good example of this. the position of the european union in copenhagen has been along these lines and, within the small or big disappointment of some of the unfulfilled copenhagen objectives, some technical issues have been clarified in relation to the importance of tropical deforestation, which must be addressed in developing countries as a clear factor in avoiding co2 emissions. it should also be noted that the conference adopted a decision on actions to reduce deforestation and forest degradation by encouraging support for capacity building in developing countries.
acting president of the council. - mr. higgins, i want to say that we agree with your reflections. the truth is that, in matters of biodiversity, the spanish presidency aims to deepen conservation and sustainable use; that is, to have an advanced, profound vision of biodiversity. it will be one of the focal points, one of the priorities of our presidency. i thank him for his assessment of the good start of our presidency and i must also tell him that the commission is planning to present a green paper on forest protection at the beginning of this year. this can be a very important initiative and we will work along these lines to respond to the phenomena that damage these areas. you have mentioned some of these elements and there are others too, for example the damage caused by forest fires. there are many other elements to consider, but i can assure you that this is going to be an important moment in the fight against deforestation of our forests, that the orientation is very much in line with the biodiversity strategy and that this will undoubtedly be one of the keys to the european union's action this year.
acting president of the council. - i agree with the first of the interventions. i think it's in line with what we've pointed out. we must tackle tropical deforestation in developing countries, which is a fundamental factor in improving the capacities of developing countries themselves, including for their own benefit, and with the participation - i should add - of indigenous peoples, of the local population, and even the implementation of national forest control systems. so i think that in this respect there has been significant progress in copenhagen and there can be no doubt that the european union is taking a leading position, a leading position, in this and other aspects of the fight against climate change. the criticism that can be made of the european union in relation to copenhagen is that it has fallen far short of what has been achieved there. the european union wants to tackle this issue in a much deeper way and so naturally the issues you raise are closely linked to the european union's action in the fight against climate change. the specific case mentioned is naturally part of the implementation of measures to combat climate change. it is natural that we should avoid the distortion of these measures by the abuse of some of their instruments, and this is part of the pathology of any measure, this or any other, and of course it is part of the obligation we all have to monitor it closely.
acting president of the council. the council attaches the greatest importance to alzheimer's disease and neurodegenerative diseases in general. the control of this disease must be a key objective in the european union, taking into account, moreover, that the incidence increases exponentially with age and that it doubles every five years from the age of 75. eurostat forecasts that the number of people aged 65 and over affected by the disease will double in the european union between 1995 and 2050. the question put by the honourable member, mr liam aylward, has two aspects. on the one hand, and the council has already dealt with this, a pilot joint programming initiative against neurodegenerative diseases is needed - this is what is proposed in the programme, which you know, of the spanish presidency - and, in particular, against alzheimer's disease. and then, as you know, the commission put forward a proposal which was adopted, by council conclusions, in december 2009. the council has also taken account of the resolution of this house, the european parliament, on this pilot initiative. moreover, as regards the coordination of european action, the council also agrees that there must be clear cooperation at european level to combat this and similar diseases, particularly because the burden on patients and their families must be reduced. it is estimated that for every person who has the disease, three members of his family are affected, since the burden of caring falls on them. it is therefore important that there should be cooperation at european level. in the joint report on social protection and social inclusion adopted by the council in 2008, states committed to increasing access to high-quality services, balancing public and private competences, and formal and informal care. member states have considered that the provision of services in a residential or community setting is better, preferable to institutional care, although it is true that such high quality services remain a challenge for many member states. what the council and the european union have done is to issue these guidelines on this disease.
acting president of the council. - what we propose in the spanish presidency is to push forward a directive which we consider crucial in relation to advanced therapies and care for chronic and non-communicable diseases. this is something that needs to be addressed at the highest level and therefore must also go hand in hand with the strengthening of initiatives to improve quality and patient safety, the work of the so-called high level group on public health. we must therefore help - and the european union often lacks the necessary powers to do so - by providing guidance, coordination, cooperation and synergies between the actions of the member states in relation to these neurodegenerative diseases, and in particular alzheimer's disease, and also by providing indirect assistance. it is true that the states are responsible for more direct aid to families, for example, and even to non-governmental organizations, although it is true that within the european public health programme it is possible for non-governmental organizations to access certain funds, which is also an interesting way of being able to help, even indirectly, those affected and their families, who are very much affected, directly, are very dependent in this respect, by alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases.
given that neurodegenerative diseases affect so many people and that, unfortunately, in some countries there are insufficient facilities for diagnosing and treating these diseases, i would like to ask you whether you are in favour of setting up european treatment centres which, based on a larger number of patients, can encourage research in this field in order to discover remedies for preventing and treating these diseases.
i am a strong supporter of turkey's membership of the european union. i agree with the firm positions expressed here on the need for turkey to respect human rights. but i hope that the same firmness will be shown in supporting turkey's efforts to join the european union. i welcome the spanish presidency's position on the desire to continue opening the negotiating chapters with turkey. i want to tell you that i visited last year, as a member of the joint delegation of the european parliament and the turkish parliament, i visited turkey after 20 years, and the progress made by turkish society is impressive.
the commission has already taken the initiative of introducing a new procedure for the adoption of the directive on the protection of the environment by means of the use of biotechnology. the danube region is of particular importance to the european union, both for the large number of countries it crosses and for its direct access to the black sea. together with the rhine and the main canal, the danube links the north sea and the port of rotterdam, the largest port in the european union, to the black sea and the port of constanta, the tenth largest port in the european union. recognising the importance of the danube region, the european council of june 2009 requested the commission to develop, by the end of 2010, a european union strategy for the danube region. we call on the commission to start consultations with all the countries bordering the danube as soon as possible and, following the model of the baltic sea strategy, to accompany the danube strategy with an action plan and a multiannual operational programme drawn up together with the participating states. the development of transport infrastructure is essential for the development of the danube region. the modernisation of ports, the unification of navigation systems on the danube, the removal of bottlenecks on the rhine/meuse-main-danube river axis to improve navigation conditions, the provision of intermodality in the region and the increase of connectivity with the black sea through road and rail transport routes, i am referring to rail freight corridors and high-speed trains, are just some of the priorities for the development of transport in the region. the danube region plays an important role in diversifying the european union's energy supply sources. implementing joint projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy, investing in new technologies and developing small and medium-sized enterprises will help to stimulate the green economy throughout the danube macro-region. tourism is also an important tool for promoting economic growth in the region. last but not least, the development of competitiveness poles, academic and cultural exchanges will contribute to territorial cohesion in the danube region. the danube region and in particular the danube delta comprises several special protection areas and special conservation areas within natura 2000, being a unique and fragile ecosystem. environmental protection in the danube basin will greatly influence agricultural and rural development in the region. the danube strategy will allow, through a coordinated approach, a more efficient use and absorption of european funds, but is not limited to this. to this end, we call on the commission and the member states to use the mid-term review of the financial perspective and the debate on the future financial perspective in 2010 to implement the objectives of the european union strategy for the danube region. the european parliament will be a constant partner in the process of developing and implementing the european union strategy for the danube region.
member of the commission. − madam president, i want to thank you for raising this very important issue on the danube regional strategy and also for your broader support for the macro-regional strategies in europe. the commission is working with the countries of the danube cooperation process in this context. this means the following member states: germany, austria, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, slovenia, bulgaria and romania. in addition, the following third countries are participating: croatia, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, moldova and ukraine. concerning the state of play at this stage, we have established inside the commission an inter-service working group of more than 20 directorates-general to indicate the main policy priorities for this strategy. in parallel, the countries of the danube region have each nominated a national contact point, and the first meeting of these contact points has been held with the member states. a series of events has been planned between february and june this year to create momentum and trigger discussion with the relevant stakeholders. the first such event will be held in ulm in germany on 1 and 2 february. turning to the future content of the strategy, i would like to underline that we are, of course, only at the beginning of the process of elaboration and preparation. the content will be discussed in closer detail over the coming months among the countries concerned, the relevant stakeholders, the commission services and other eu institutions. nevertheless, it seems likely that the strategy will be based on three broad pillars or, in other words, broader policy priorities: firstly, to improve connectivity and environmentally sustainable communication systems; secondly, to protect the environment, preserve water resources and improve risk prevention activities; and thirdly, to reinforce socioeconomic human and institutional development. these three pillars will include a number of concrete actions based on the contributions received from the member states, stakeholders and from within the commission. finally, let me indicate the next steps. between now and june we shall continue to gather ideas and proposals from the member states, from stakeholders and from other interested parties through position papers, meetings, conferences and also a public consultation exercise via the internet. following that, by september the commission will prioritise and organise ideas in order to prepare the draft communication on the strategy and the accompanying action plan. then, finally, by december the commission will prepare the adoption of these documents. therefore, from next year – 2011 – on, we will start setting up the governance systems and concrete implementation of the actions and projects that will have been planned and decided by that time. thank you for your attention. i look forward to hearing the points you wish to raise in this debate.
on behalf of the epp group. the epp group attaches particular importance to the danube strategy. the rhine-main-danube axis is a bridge between east and west, between the north sea and the black sea, is directly linked to ensuring energy security, opens the way to asia through the black sea, and also links the mediterranean sea. we therefore support the development of the danube strategy this year, as the commission has committed itself to do, and i welcome the re-engagement of commissioner rehn and wish it to be adopted with a concrete action plan by the beginning of 2011 at the latest. among the major priorities to be pursued are: ensuring navigability along the entire axis, first of all the danube-rhine connection and the standardisation of navigation systems, modernising river ports and developing related infrastructure to become integrated multimodal systems, the efficient use of the danube's energy potential, developing irrigation systems to prevent desertification, implementing an integrated water monitoring system to increase the capacity to forecast, prevent and respond to floods, drought or pollution. concerted action is needed, as the failure of even one coastal state to get involved can lead to the entire process being blocked. financial resources are also needed, and i hope that the new european commission will take this into account and not avoid public-private partnership funding. of all the danube countries, romania has the largest sector. for this reason, romania supports the speedy development of this strategy to exploit the river's potential, which is essential for the whole of europe.
i believe that a well-founded strategy with the necessary financial resources could significantly improve the quality of life of the people in the danube basin. at present, financial instruments are available for infrastructure projects, economic development or environmental protection, but they can only be used by member states and their neighbouring countries. this is something that must be given special attention and we must not exclude the possibility of finding other sources of funding in the future besides the community. it is known that the other states do not have the necessary financial resources, and this makes cohesive development along the danube impossible, from an infrastructure and economic point of view, and therefore the regional authorities respond differently to the problems they have. the commission is, as far as we know, considering consulting local partners to ensure sustainable development. the question is whether the commission also envisages working with regional expert groups to develop the strategy. the question remains whether the objectives of this strategy should be to achieve cohesion, to exploit the economic and transport potential of the danube, to ensure the protection of the river, the ecosystem and the quality of the water. i would also recall that the danube is priority axis number 18 in the ten-t (trans-european network of transport) and the commission is currently initiating a broad review of the trans-european transport networks policy with a communication on this subject scheduled for may 2010. the question arises as to how the transport policy issues applicable in the eu member states are expected to be linked to this strategy, which naturally also takes into account the presence of non-eu states in the danube region.
i think we must express our support for a european strategy for the danube region, especially since the accession of romania and bulgaria to the union has brought the benefit that today most of the more than 2800 km of the river is in community territory. the baltic strategy has played a decisive role in opening up the macro-regions' perspective; the danube strategy marks a further step in the same direction. one of the priorities of the danube strategy should be economic, namely the development of the energy capacities of both the danube and its neighbouring area. following the january 2009 gas crisis, romania is already making a european-level effort to interconnect gas networks with neighbouring states through the arad-szeged, giurgiu-ruse, isaccea and negru vodă projects, but more efforts are needed towards alternative, renewable sources. i appreciate that the european danube strategy must take into account the analysis and the appropriateness of objectives such as the development of energy infrastructure, namely new transmission networks and new electricity generation capacity, the promotion of energy production from renewable sources, new hydroelectric power stations, wind power stations, biofuels, the continuation of nuclear power development programmes, such as the one in cernavoda. the protection of the environment in the danube basin must be a top priority. in this regard, it is necessary for the union, together with the riparian countries, to be involved in the conservation of the danube delta ecosystem, including by permanently stopping the works in the bastrop canal. we cannot allow misunderstood economic interests of a country in the eu's neighbourhood to produce an ecological disaster in the danube delta.
since i submitted my candidacy for the european parliament, i have considered the danube to be an important, untapped potential of the eu. the rhine-main-danube transport axis, which links the north sea via the port of rotterdam to the black sea via the port of constanta, could become the backbone of europe. the new danube strategy looks likely to be approved under the auspices of the hungarian presidency. it will focus on areas such as transport, economic development and environmental protection. one of the main barriers to the development of rhine-main-danube transport is the diversity of standards that navigators have to apply. unfortunately, it seems that the political will to harmonise these rules has so far been lacking. the ulm conference, which i will be attending on 1 and 2 february, is a first step in the consultation process. romania has offered to organise a number of conferences on this topic, including the ministerial conference in june 2010.
the danube is a life- and history-shaping element in central and south-eastern europe. in 1823, andrews and prichard were granted an exclusive patent to sail in the austrian provinces. they set up a joint stock company with its headquarters in vienna. the treaty of paris of 1856 made the al-duna section navigable, contributing to the economic prosperity of the region. today, the eu's lasting peace and prosperity is a guarantee that it will meet its challenges. given the historical precedent, we might ask why the first step was a bit of a stumble. i mean, the intergroup. perhaps because the interests of hungary, romania, germany and austria could not be reconciled. let's remember our history. the region has developed well when conflicting interests have been reconciled, but values have not suffered.
in writing. – the black sea area, to which the eu has elaborated only a synergy, underlining its bridging geostrategic position, but also its own hesitation to address the geopolitical complexities of the place, comes part and parcel with the river danube. let us not forget that, back in 1856, when this area was previously under world attention, one of the results has been a regulatory status of the river danube at the european level. it was then when the danube commission, an organ still existing today, has been created and the maritime sector of the river built. equally, today too, the river danube comes to attention once the eu has become physically a black sea actor. only that, different from the black sea area, the river danube is under almost total eu control. now that the main blockage of the river – the situation of serbia – is going to be removed, let us not miss this opportunity and give our full and serious consideration to this river, thus making it the truly european waterway we all will benefit from.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen of the house. i welcome the proposal for a multi-party resolution on a european strategy for the danube region, which is perfectly in line with the new european process that has begun with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the european parliament's increased role is a sign of its initiative in high-profile issues such as the danube strategy. however, i believe that we need to talk about more than the economic, environmental, transport and tourism components, and i would therefore like to stress the political importance of the strategy, the involvement of all danube countries in the planning and cooperation process, including those countries such as serbia and ukraine that are not yet members of the european union. for these countries, the role of the danube strategy is an important instrument of european convergence, which also facilitates their accession process. as a member of the european parliament from hungary in romania, i am convinced that this initiative, as well as the potential of the neighbourhood policy, will improve the living conditions of the hungarian communities in serbia and ukraine. i would add that the joint commitment of hungarian meps to the carpathian basin is also the european future of hungarian communities living outside the borders of the union. the danube is home to one of the most colourful multicultural regions in europe, and preserving and promoting historical and community traditions, cultural dialogue or joint protection of monuments can all be components of the danube strategy that strengthen and make the region unique.
mr president, as has already been pointed out, tunisia is an important partner of the union. the extremely important social aspect of tunisia was also mentioned and recalled. i would also like to add to this the political aspects which are significant because, as has been said, this is a society which practices multipartyism, even if it is limited, with a quota for the opposition, no doubt, but it is still multipartyism. there is also the gender equality that was mentioned. in all our countries, in the countries of europe, all these political sides are accompanied by freedom of the press, and that's what makes the difference, in fact, because in tunisia, that freedom exists, but it's limited, and we have, indeed, journalists who are struggling. the question is whether the union's rapprochement will increase this freedom or not. in my view, the rapprochement of the union could help tunisia to complement the social progress achieved by extremely important political advances.
in writing. the recent attacks on christian communities in egypt and malaysia can be seen from two different perspectives. first of all, we must stress that the european union, as a community of european states with a high level of democracy and the rule of law, cannot ignore the occurrence of similar cases in the spirit of religious tolerance, human and minority rights, no matter where in the world they occur. we need to make clear to governments that want to continue to have good relations with us that europe is asking its partners for widely accepted standards of universal human rights and that the future development of relations may be affected by human rights issues. in parallel, we must not forget about the infringements that occur in the european union. religious tolerance, human and minority rights including the rights of individuals belonging to minority churches also need to be further extended in some cases in the member states of the union. if europe wants to set an example to the world, it cannot afford to discriminate against anyone on its territory on the grounds of their religious beliefs, ethnic origin or membership of a national minority. we see that the law in egypt guarantees freedom of religion, but in practice the opposite is true of christians. unfortunately, similar cases of mismatch between laws and everyday practice are also found in the member states of the union.
author. − mr president, last month mr liu xiaobo, the very well-known writer and political activist, was sentenced to 11 years’ imprisonment for ‘incitement to subvert state power’. he was arrested over a year ago after drafting charter 08, a charter which was signed by more than 10 000 ordinary chinese citizens, demanding the most normal things in a democratic society: the right to free speech, open elections and rule of law. the prosecution of mr liu xiaobo, based solely on his peaceful initiatives, and the judicial harassment he faced are undoubtedly incompatible with internationally acknowledged norms of human rights and fundamental freedoms. therefore we should call strongly for mr liu xiaobo’s unconditional release, which should take place immediately. in the last few years, relations between the european union and china have focused mainly on the economic dimension, which has overshadowed the country’s democratic record and the gross human rights violations which have systematically occurred in china. a few days ago, for the first time, a police official admitted that the famous human rights lawyer and 2008 nobel peace prize nominee, mr gao zhisheng, had gone missing after a year in the chinese authorities’ custody. many people fear that he might be dead. a few weeks ago, the chinese government disregarded an eu appeal not to execute a british citizen. it is particularly disturbing to see how the chinese government ignores its international commitments in the field of human rights. one is entitled to wonder why, under these circumstances, china submitted its candidacy to the un human rights council – was it simply to legitimise the way it suppresses human rights? in april 2009, the chinese government issued a national human rights plan, a lengthy document which appears to be nothing but a piece of paper. there must be no doubt. this house, the european parliament, has the obligation to thoroughly evaluate the results of the eu-china human rights dialogue.
on behalf of the epp group. words should not be seen as crimes, this is what liu xiaobo argued in charter 08, the political manifesto he initiated and which was supported, as it was said, by thousands of chinese. for such a statement, as well as for his constant support of human rights, liu xiaobo was sentenced to 11 years in prison and two years deprivation of political rights. this punishment is, i believe, a symptom of the intensifying campaign by the chinese authorities against human rights defenders. as evidence, as announced this morning, tzu yong jun, leader of the tiananmen square movement was also sentenced to nine years in prison. i therefore believe it is essential to address the subject of human rights at the next eu-china summit, as stated in article 9 of the resolution. i believe, as mrs hautala has suggested earlier, that the instrument of human rights dialogue is insufficient: this human rights issue must be dealt with at the summits, because so far the dialogues have not produced results.
in writing. the right to life, the right to freedom of expression and thought are at the heart of the european construction and our vision of the world. when one of our partners, in this case china, repeatedly violates these rights, we are obliged to respond. but we must not do it in a shame and blame model, blaming china and ignoring the cultural and civilizational differences that separate us. the resolution before us on the human rights situation in china, particularly in the case of liu xiaobo, is a proof of a simplistic approach to the problems facing chinese society. our position was not at all against the principle of the inviolability of human rights behind the resolution, to which we adhered unreservedly, but on the way it was transmitted. to achieve the results we want, we need to maintain a non-confrontational climate between us and china. only in this way can we contribute to china's evolution into a society with a deep attachment to the importance of respecting human rights.
in writing. − i believe that the importance of strengthening a european union strategy for the danube region will facilitate the union's external action in its immediate neighbourhood, highlighting its potential to contribute to the stabilisation of the south-east and east european region by implementing concrete projects for the economic and social development of these regions. the assumption by the member states bordering the danube of responsibility for promoting the proposal for the creation of this strategy for the danube region at community level confirms their capacity to make a concrete contribution to the promotion of major initiatives capable of ensuring the continuation of european integration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the danube, calling for the urgent development of a european strategy for the region. this strategy will considerably step up interregional cooperation and will have the following objectives: development and modernisation of both river transport on the rhine/meuse-main-danube axis and road and rail transport in the danube area; development and efficient use of renewable energy resources to reduce carbon emissions and increase energy security; environmental protection through the implementation of projects to restore and protect the ecosystems in the region; efficient absorption of community funds and attraction of investments, promotion of tourism, all as part of the europe 2020 strategy. for romania, this strategy will have a beneficial impact in particular on the country's connectivity to european transport networks, the protection of the national heritage of the delta, the socio-economic development of the localities located in the danube basin and the development of the danube basin.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the development strategy for the danube, calling on the commission to draw up this document as soon as possible, taking into account concrete consultations with experts in the field and from the relevant regions, identifying financial resources and including non-eu countries. the strategy should focus on issues related to environmental protection and water quality, economic potential and trans-european transport networks. the resolution on the european strategy for the danube region emphasises the role and importance of broad consultations with local actors, which the european commission should organise in order to represent citizens' interests as accurately as possible. the resolution also states that any macro-regional strategy should be incorporated into cohesion policy, which is the coordinating policy at european union level. in addition, it will be necessary to analyse the added value generated by this strategy from the perspective of european territorial cohesion. i believe that the ten-t (transeuropean network of transport) strategy, where the danube is included in point 18, should be linked to the new territorial and economic development strategy, so that development can take place in a coherent way.
the romanian government is considering a tax on fast food in the hope that fewer citizens, especially children and young people, will opt for this type of food, which has disastrous effects on the body in the medium and long term. taxes may seem like a complicated solution in a time of crisis, but if done right, such a gesture transcends the realm of taxation and enters the realm of education. thus, more and more people are learning that their health begins with their diet. the funds generated by these taxes should be used exclusively for programmes to educate the public about ingredients and substances that are harmful to them. the health systems in the member states tend to be increasingly burdened by diseases that obesity makes possible, and the link between obesity and fast food is well documented. the promotion of healthy food consumption should become a central policy in the union and this should not be delayed. a european-wide programme using initiatives from several member states would be welcome and very useful and could lead to a healthier standard diet in the european union.
the reduction of economic disparities between member states through close coordination of fiscal and monetary policies must be a top priority for the future european commission. this openness to cooperation has been evident since the beginning of the economic crisis and it is imperative that it continues. at the same time, when it comes to coordination at tax level, it is necessary to take into account the fact that within the european union there are countries with economies that are structurally different. the economies of certain member states are thus more cyclical, with higher public investment needs and higher growth potential than the mature economies in the union. the stability and growth pact and the current procedure for joining the euro area should therefore include flexibility clauses to allow for the analysis of public expenditure over the whole period of an economic cycle, so that member states can invest when necessary. this would allow each member state to develop in line with the state of its economy.
the name 'red mountain' is certainly becoming more and more familiar to european institutions and citizens alike. we're talking about an area of romania with historical relics that have attracted the attention of unesco, now under the specter of destruction. cyanide mining, which threatens to annihilate the integrity and values of this settlement, is once again emerging as a real prospect. in recent weeks, the romanian government has indicated that destroying the region by allowing this exploitation to begin can be considered acceptable. i make a strong plea to the european parliament and the european commission to consider the possibility of intervening at the level of eu leadership to stop what will undoubtedly be an ecological and human disaster.
the reporter. − the recent financial and economic crisis has fully demonstrated the major importance of sound and sustainable public finances in each member state. member states with good governance and countercyclical fiscal policies have had the capacity to provide fiscal stimulus so that economies can overcome the crisis. in this context, as rapporteur, i welcome the european commission's initiative and the council's draft directive on improving mutual assistance between member states in the recovery of tax and duty arrears. this directive will not only help to increase the efficiency of debt recovery but will also contribute to the better functioning of the single market. i would like to say that the draft directive radically improves a number of important aspects of debt recovery: the exchange of information between authorities, the ways in which debts are traced and the feedback that is needed by the european commission to monitor an ever-increasing activity in terms of the number of cases between member states. amendments have been drawn up and i would like to thank all the colleagues who have tabled these amendments, which have clarified the terms of application of the directives.
our debate on proposed tax reforms takes place in a context which inevitably affects tax policies. the economic and financial crisis is driving deficits worldwide, which is implicitly increasing the importance of the resources drawn to the public budget. as mentioned, the latest reports on the subject reflect the worrying proportions of tax fraud in the european union, amounting to over 200 billion euros a year, the equivalent of 2 to 2.5 of gross domestic product. our colleagues who have dealt with these reports, and to whom i would like to express my appreciation for their work, have put before us an eloquent mirror of the extent of the fraud. the economic recovery plan proposed by the european commission to reduce the effects of the crisis involves costs totalling the equivalent of 1% of gdp. i believe that the situation calls for strong anti-fraud measures and closer cooperation in the tax field between member states, all the more so as the crisis has brought out more than ever the negative side of interdependencies between national economies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products, energy savings and energy savings. in this respect, the automatic exchange of information, the elimination of banking secrecy and measures to improve mutual assistance in debt recovery can make a significant contribution to the efficiency of administrative cooperation between the 27 member states. finally, i would like to wish commissioner kovács every success in his future work.
i would like to refer to the e-government systems which have already been implemented in various member states, such as electronic taxation, electronic vat or initiatives such as electronic invoicing. we are talking about a new digital agenda for the next five years, and member states need to use information technology to improve administrative and tax cooperation. i believe that, at least as regards electronic invoicing, a high-level group has been established since 2008, which in november last year completed a report and recommendations to the european commission, and commissioner tajani has committed himself to coming up with initiatives in the next period to support electronic invoicing so that it becomes widely adopted in all member states. i would like to ask the commission when and if it will come forward with such a proposal.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr stolojan, on his work on the report on debt recovery. the eu needs common legislation, applied uniformly in all member states, to combat tax fraud and evasion. the internal market, as well as the budget of a member state, can be affected by the non-payment of any kind of tax or duty. the free movement of capital and persons has made it necessary to extend the scope of the legislation. from the beginning of this year, compulsory social security contributions will be included. an important step in the recovery of claims within the eu is the rapid exchange of information. the fact that there will be common standard tools and formulae, translated into all the official eu languages, will facilitate the day-to-day work of the competent authorities. a common automated system will allow for quicker and cheaper claims settlement.
the reporter. - i listened carefully to the views of my colleagues. i've also seen the reservations about automatic information exchange. i am convinced, however, that we must show every european citizen who pays his taxes and duties correctly that we, here in the european institutions, are determined to take all measures to minimise tax evasion and to ensure that decisions to recover tax debts can actually be enforced, regardless of the member state in which the debtor is located.
in writing. value added tax fraud is one of the criminal phenomena with very serious budgetary effects, with illegal reimbursement schemes being used in all member states, romania being no exception (e.g. the carousel of sales). reverse taxation, introduced by some member states, including romania, has worked very well, but it was also necessary to adapt the vat directive 112 to current realities so that the risk of implementing illegal vat refund schemes (such as fictitious exports) is as low as possible. the application of reverse charge to products with a high risk of tax fraud is therefore a safe method and, despite the deferral of payment of vat to the state budget in respect of transactions involving such a charge, the final effect on the budget is positive. in conclusion, given the choice between collecting vat only at the end of the business cycle, when the finished product or service reaches the end user, and avoiding fraud consisting in illegal vat refunds, the correct choice is the former. ideally, reverse taxation should be the rule rather than the exception, but this should be done after serious budgetary impact analysis.
in writing. the tax initiatives discussed today have a particularly important role to play in the fight against crossborder tax fraud and evasion, problems with a deep political dimension and serious consequences for member states' budgets. promoting good governance in tax matters requires action both at eu and non-eu level and at member state level. we need strong measures, simple and transparent laws and, by implication, less bureaucracy and, last but not least, ensuring citizens' access to care. measures such as ensuring transparency and information exchange at all levels, improving assistance to member states, ensuring effective cross-border cooperation and fair tax competition are all the more essential now, in the context of the financial crisis, when we have all seen how important the sustainability of tax systems is. member states with good tax governance were able to react much more quickly and effectively to the economic crisis. i appreciate the commission's initiative and the work of my fellow rapporteurs and i believe that there is the political will to promote good governance in tax matters but we must ensure that these proposals do not remain at the level of political declarations and we must act to implement them as quickly as possible.
i would like to start with three key questions: what will be the future of european industrial policy, where will the competitiveness of the european economy go, and what will happen to the european workforce and, by implication, to the quality of life of european citizens. at the beginning of this year, the unemployment rate in the european union reached 10 percent, and in some countries, such as latvia and spain, it reached 20 percent. that's why i think this topic is important. and that is why i think that in the case of a european multinational company in the process of restructuring, it is important that trade unions from other member states, not just from the one where the company has its headquarters, also participate in the consultation process within the european works council. i think that you can impose this as commissioner for employment and social affairs, or whoever will be in that position.
the resolution is welcome and i am glad that it has given a central place to the issue of women working in agriculture without a clear and definite legal status on property and their role in the family household. this problem, with its potentially important consequences, is also on the agenda of the spanish presidency of the council, and it is an important objective, and we must look for the best possible solutions in this respect. i also hope that the role of women in the european economy will feature prominently in the forthcoming eu 2020 strategy, which will be discussed at the informal summit in brussels this week.
in appreciation of the report, i want to emphasize one thing. i don't think the legislation is relevant, especially because this equality between men and women is a major component of a people's civilization and culture system. i believe that positive measures must be taken at the beginning of the evolution of each individual and must start from a form of education that removes stereotypes and gives strength and vocation to gender equality from childhood. if we don't think like that and we don't build like that, we're still going to have the same kind of discourse of finding and less of achievement. one more thing i want to emphasize: in a knowledge civilization, in a new form of economy, inequalities are fading, and i think these are significant steps towards parity.
i believe that to ensure equal opportunities for men and women, there needs to be an effective system for career planning and, by implication, sufficient childcare facilities such as day-care centres and kindergartens. today in the european union there are waiting lists for children to be enrolled in nursery or kindergarten and there are even a large number of children who cannot be enrolled in such an educational institution because there are not enough places. every euro invested in developing childcare facilities is worth six euros returned to society through jobs created and the quality of life of european citizens improved. i therefore hope that in the future the union and the member states will invest more in these facilities for the care of very young children. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the plight of single-parent families and the difficulties faced by single parents raising their children alone.
in the context of the economic and financial crisis, the unemployment rate among women in 2009 increased by 1.6% compared to that of men, which increased by 2.7%. in the political field, women's participation in decision-making has increased significantly. in the european parliament, the percentage of women has increased from 31% to 35% compared to the previous mandate. romania is represented by 36% women. taking romania as an example, a premiere is the election of a former member of the european parliament as president of the chamber of deputies. taking my example, i ran for the european parliament as an independent, managing to get the necessary number of votes without the help of a party list, as a young woman at the beginning of her political career. in the private sector, women are much better represented, one third of them... (the speaker was interrupted by the president)
in writing. even though for the first time in history the number of women in the labour market exceeds that of men, gender discrimination still exists. a significant proportion of women's jobs are part-time or fixed-term contracts and are underpaid. more than half a century after the principle of equal pay was incorporated in the eu treaties, a woman in the european union has to work 418 calendar days to earn what a man earns in 365 days. even though eu policy has been pioneering, the pay gap has stagnated since 2000. we have the necessary legal instruments, which is why i am calling for the future european commission to be involved in the transposition of directive 2006/54/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities in employment in all member states. while the recession has hit male-dominated sectors particularly hard, there is a risk that budgetary restrictions will lead, including in romania, to the elimination of many jobs in the public service, where women are most represented. i believe it is essential that gender equality policies are not altered by discriminatory measures targeting public sector employees.
in writing. the report on equal opportunities aims to give a new impetus to equal opportunities within the european union, as the promotion of genuine and democratic equality between women and men remains a landmark for the achievement of a democracy that integrates all of society. equal opportunities are a lever for social progress and must not remain a mere instrument of justice. in most european countries, occupational and sectoral segregation remains almost unchanged, and this is reflected in lower wages for women, fewer women working when there are children in care, and the co-responsibility of men and women in the family sphere. in addition, we must not forget the role and contribution of women in european agriculture, where one third of the workers are women and they are often not paid and do not benefit from adequate social protection because the work is carried out on farms that provide food for their own families. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of women and girls in the eu, and that the commission had also taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of women and girls in the eu.
in writing. the european union has as a fundamental principle equality between women and men. over time, much progress has been made in this respect, but significant discrepancies still exist between member states in terms of equal pay, senior management and the percentage of women in the labour market. despite existing legislation at community level, there is still an average difference of 15 to 17% between the wages of men and women in the member states, the latter in low-paid or part-time jobs. as a result of reduced lifetime earnings and pensions for women, pay gaps cause poverty among older women, with 21% of women aged 65 and over at risk of poverty, while only 16% of men are in this situation in order to ensure equal rights for both women and men, it is necessary for member states to exchange good practices in ensuring gender equality. i also stress the need for educational programmes in schools to avoid the inheritance of stereotypes about women.
mr president, i think you are more than aware that europe is standing at a turning point, and you have the opportunity to take it one way or the other: either the gloomy way, with deeper economic crises, a bad competitiveness environment for european companies, more regulation and bureaucratic burden, or the courageous way, seizing all the opportunities laid down in the lisbon treaty to make europe stronger and taking a cohesive approach to global markets and challenges. opportunities and solutions to the global challenges can be found in sectors such as the ict digital agenda, research and development and energy. a new treaty, finally ratified by all member states, is giving you – on a silver platter – the tools to achieve these goals. what i fear most is the widening gap between citizens’ expectations and brussels’ little world. the trust and confidence that we assume from our citizens is fading away. on how many occasions have i observed the discrepancies between the european administration pursuing a blunt policy goal and peoples’ real concerns? what is the aim of devising a common energy policy if we cannot deliver our citizens secure, affordable and green energy? what is the aim of collecting data on energy infrastructures? i believe we cannot impose one-size-fits-all solutions. the commission has to take into account the differences, opportunities and means of each member state. you will need to be visionary and creative to take europe out of the gloomy past. on this, parliament will support you. if we miss the opportunity, europe will not get a second chance in five years.
i believe that the main task of the new commission is to implement the treaty of lisbon. your role is to demonstrate to the european citizens that the new treaty is in line with their expectations and to give them confidence in it. in the coming years, among many other important issues, the commission will have to propose the revision of two very important policies: the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. i believe that only after finalizing these policies can the political budget structure for 2014-2021 be built. this is why the new commission's framework programme must make this a top priority. i hope that the revision of these two components of european policies will lead in the medium and long term to the balancing of the economic, financial and social situation in all the member states in order to prevent imbalances of the kind that are currently occurring and that endanger the sustainable development of the union as a whole.
i would also like to say that today is an important day, because we are going to give a vote to a commission for 27 member states, but for one europe. it was said here that the implementation of the lisbon treaty is an emergency. it is an emergency which is fraught with great difficulty, because the present crisis is far from facilitating the implementation of this treaty, which is supposed to bring about a single europe for 27 countries and a europe which is at the same time credible for every european. i would like to stress that, in my view, the most important challenge for the union is precisely the solidarity of europeans from the old countries and the new countries, the solidarity of europeans from the west and the east. only then will we make a credible europe for those who aspire to be part of our union sooner or later, whether it be the western balkans, moldova, turkey or iceland.
the question often asked, kissinger, is who answers the phone? that we need strong personalities and strong faces. no, you can't. we need strong institutions. a commission, a parliament, a union where anyone can answer the phone in the commission because they can give a competent answer and a competent solution. i have a request for you now: we want a europe where the rights of traditional national minorities are respected, where there are no slovak language laws. the entry into force of this language law not only violates the provisions of the eu's fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights, but also threatens the functioning of the single internal market, one of the greatest achievements of european integration. i call on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure the full application of community law, in accordance with the opinion of the legal service.
in writing. the new college of commissioners is the first full team of the european union, composed of 27 member states. romania and bulgaria, which joined the european union on 1 january 2007, have only now had the chance to propose a commissioner for a full five-year term. i congratulate romania on the choice made in mr ciolos. i believe that his performance at the hearings before the committee on agriculture and rural development was very convincing to all those who attended. i also think that his professionalism is a good omen, considering the important challenges that lie ahead in the field he will be handling. i am referring, first of all, to the forthcoming debates on the future of the common agricultural policy. to find the most appropriate solutions, adapted to the needs and interests of all member states, the new commissioner will need a deep understanding of european agriculture, a lot of manpower and a lot of diplomacy, qualities that i know he possesses. i wish the entire college of commissioners every success and hope that the work you will do in your next mandate will bring the european union closer to its citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a revised framework agreement between the european parliament and the commission for the next parliamentary term because i consider this agreement to be essential for the cooperation between the european parliament and the future european commission. the european institutions must ensure that the 'community method' is used effectively and in the interests of european citizens. in accordance with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, which establishes a new institutional balance, the european parliament may request the commission to submit legislative proposals, and the commission must submit such legislative proposal within one year of the request by parliament. the extension of parliament's powers, interinstitutional cooperation and the promotion of simplification of union legislation ensure a better functioning of the community legislative process and a more active and direct involvement of citizens in the drafting of european legislation. the commission should regulate the procedures and conditions, laid down in the treaty of lisbon, by which citizens of the union may invite the commission to submit a legislative proposal on matters where they consider it necessary.
in writing. − we have a new commission, which has taken up its mandate at a difficult time, but which is made up of professionals who have the responsibilities of all 27 member states. we have the treaty of lisbon which changes the configuration of power and requires flexibility on the part of the commission. the european union is thus in a new and sensitive context, but one which requires performance, stability and dynamism in proposing and implementing coherent policies. we are facing a new financial perspective, and this implies a responsible response from the commission, through reform and new adjustments in all areas, starting with the economic one. all member states are feeling the impact of the financial crisis. the alarm sounded by greece is being heard loud and clear, from states with robust economic systems to those struggling for every step in reducing their budget deficits. a stable and coordinated economic policy at the level of the 27 countries is the chance to avoid a major imbalance at eu level and, in the second stage, to produce beneficial effects. the ec's actions are designed to reflect responses to crisis-related issues and to build on them, in order to restore stability in the member states. in other words, to heal the deficit, to prevent discrepancies and at the same time to consolidate.
in writing. − the barroso ii commission is the first to operate under the lisbon treaty, with extended powers for the ep, which thus becomes a more visible and active partner than ever before. by voting, we have invested a college of commissioners who, indeed, did not have a flawless overall performance, the case of the commissioner-designate from bulgaria and his subsequent replacement being relevant in this respect. the fact that we have been able to make this change in the composition of the college is actually a success of the ep in general, and of our political group in particular. however, i believe that a vote in favour of this college is the most appropriate choice, given that a delay in the decision would have put the eu in an awkward position, where accusations of inefficiency would have been justified. the new commission must start its de facto work as soon as possible and catch up, at least in terms of activity, with the ep, which has been elected for seven months. we can only hope for good cooperation, in which the objectives and action plans take on a more concrete form than that presented in the hearings.
in writing. as a committed european, and after the adoption of the framework agreement between the european commission and the european parliament for the next five years, i supported the approval of the new european commission, as did the majority of my colleagues in the epp group. the result of the vote is clear: 488 of my colleagues supported the establishment of the college of the european commission with me. i would like to remind you that this is the first time in european history that we are investing the european commission as a genuine co-legislator. in a europe shaken by the crisis, and with the new institutional framework, ambition and a great unifying project are needed to build a stronger europe for the european citizens. i therefore strongly urge the new european commission to take action without delay.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the barroso commission 2 for two reasons. on the one hand, because it has presented a credible and realistic programme, which i consider to be adapted to the needs of the present time. i hope the new college will move quickly to implement this program. on the other hand, because mr barroso's team is made up of many credible professionals who will make a significant contribution - i am convinced - to the success of the reforms we need in the coming years.
some euro area countries are currently experiencing serious financial difficulties, as evidenced by public debt and budget deficits well above the thresholds allowed by the stability and growth pact. the main logic of the stability pact was to avoid 'stealth' behaviour by imposing limits on public debt. what was not taken into account, however, was the need for public debt to rise in the context of a deteriorating macroeconomic financial situation, coupled with the exponential growth of private debt. the rapid deterioration of the financial situation in some member states threatens both the stability of the euro and cohesion at european union level. to avoid such consequences, it is imperative that solidarity be shown between member states by adopting joint measures to help states in difficulty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the stability pact to include the new member states, in particular the new member states, which are not yet members of the european union. it is therefore up to us to show a united political will and to put the reform of the pact into practice, which has become a necessity today.
i believe that any member state must be prepared to join the euro area, otherwise the effects on the national economy can be very negative. the economic instability of some countries under the euro umbrella must be kept under control so that it does not spill over to the union as a whole. the economies of greece, spain and portugal recorded large budget deficits in 2009, due to the global economic crisis on the one hand, but also to inadequate policies promoted by their own national governments. romania will present the euro area convergence plan by the end of february, in line with negotiations with the imf and the european commission. my country has proposed in 2012 to join the exchange rate mechanism, which is actually an anti-chamber of the eurozone, which forces us to reduce the budget deficit below 3%.
statistics show that bluefin tuna is being fished far beyond the limits, with the bluefin tuna population declining every year. the proposal by the state of monaco to include bluefin tuna in cites appendix 1 may prove salutary, as this species is doomed to extinction unless radical and immediate measures are taken to protect it. in 1992, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas adopted the recommendation to monitor the trade in bluefin tuna. unfortunately, it has proved to be a tool of more than limited effectiveness. in 2007, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas adopted a much more complex programme, called the blue tuna catch documentation programme, which came into effect in the summer of 2008. although it represents a step forward, it is still premature to assess the effectiveness of this programme. i cannot therefore help asking: to what extent can the european union's position in favour of the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex 1 counterbalance, in the context of the cites conference, the wish of certain bodies and non-eu countries to adopt a standby policy until the hypothetical fruits of the recent initiatives of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas can be assessed?
mr president, all elements of this agreement are important but i want to focus on the bluefin tuna issue. it is vital that we act now to prevent a stock collapse and to allow the numbers of bluefin tuna to recover. in 2006 the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna agreed on an action plan designed to improve reporting and monitoring of stocks and inspection of vessels. but it is clear that it is not enough. the stocks, particularly the eastern stock in the mediterranean, remains critically low and there is a very real risk that we will soon witness the extinction of this endangered species. the conference of the parties to cites should therefore agree to place bluefin tuna in appendix i of the convention, and the member states and the commission must do more to combat illegal fishing and to enforce agreed restrictions and quotas.
i appreciate the report presented and congratulate mr van nistelrooij on the way he handled and completed it. i believe that the erdf regulation should be amended to allow the states to use this funding for the renovation and construction of housing for marginalised communities. the actions of states and local authorities must aim at the sustainable social inclusion of these communities in both urban and rural areas. i appreciate that the focused effort to support the roma community must involve all the member states of the union. this is because roma, the roma population, is the largest marginalised community in europe, a community with a high level of cross-border mobility in the european area. but we must also take into account the needs of other communities, in particular those of legal immigrants and the communities of workers temporarily working in other member states. for these reasons it is good to allow the use of erdf funding for housing in all eu countries. i believe in the success of the programme and hope that we will continue with a new phase in supporting families in marginalised communities through facilities and in terms of getting and keeping jobs, especially in the face of the crisis. i support this report which will also allow romania to access funding for the social inclusion of marginalised people, including roma in urban areas as well as in rural areas.
the eligibility of housing interventions to be financed by the erdf in favour of marginalised communities will help member states to improve their absorption of european funds. personally, i think that this eligibility should apply to all member states. regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 has recently been amended to allow all member states to improve energy efficiency in their homes. the new text provides for a 4% quota. perhaps, for the sake of consistency and to reduce red tape, it would have been better to keep the same percentage. the new provisions stipulate the need to develop urban development projects for areas threatened with physical deterioration or social exclusion, but also for marginalised communities. this includes areas affected by disasters such as floods or earthquakes. i would like to conclude, mr president, by asking the commission, together with the member states, to use 2010 to review the operational programmes in order to increase the absorption of european funds to improve the social housing stock.
the new eligibility rules for housing are an example of how the same funds, without being supplemented, can be used to a greater effect. the first step was taken last year by relaxing the rules on the use of eu funds to improve energy efficiency. in this respect, i would say that it was a small step and that the percentage allowed could be re-examined. the second step is today. in both cases, the adaptation of texts was involved, some of which date from very different periods than the present. i therefore wonder whether other aspects of the use of european funds should not be reviewed in order to change those criteria which no longer correspond to current needs.
the year 2010 is the european year against poverty and social exclusion. unfortunately, the number of those facing extreme poverty and marginalisation is very high, which is in contrast to the fundamental principles and values of the european union. the vulnerability of these communities has increased significantly in this period marked by the economic crisis. in this context, i welcome the initiative to extend the eligibility conditions for the european regional development fund, which is an important and indispensable instrument in the fight against poverty. because of the poor quality of the housing, i feel it is urgent to provide financial assistance. financial support must be provided for both urban and rural housing. the granting of such financial support should also not discriminate between the roma population and other social groups in similar situations.
i shall refer to macedonia only in my speech, and i would like to stress that the report shows progress on the situation in macedonia and supports a political decision to open negotiations with that country. i'm not going to go into the balance of the report and how he details the ups and downs he's facing. i would like to emphasise two things: exit polls, opinion polls in macedonia, show that this country is one of the most euro-optimistic in the region and the support of the population is, i believe, a condition for success in the negotiation process; secondly, i believe that greece, as a member country of the european union, must understand the european patterns of reconciliation with history and take all steps to ensure that the dispute over the name of macedonia does not constitute an obstacle to the country's march towards europe, because to think otherwise is to think contrary to the european spirit and vocation.
mr president, i welcome all the efforts and the progress made by croatia towards its accession to the european union. this will certainly represent a major step forward in the direction of european integration for the entire western balkans region. i hope 2010 will be a very good year for croatia and for the western balkans too, but i would also like to underline the necessity of considering and adequately addressing the issue of refugees and the internally displaced persons. see the last report of the un high commissioner for refugees. as you know, in 2005 an agreement was signed in sarajevo by croatia, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, and montenegro – the so-called sarajevo declaration. the agreement was aimed at sorting out the problem of the very large numbers of refugees and internally displaced people deriving from the conflict in the region. however, this is an issue that is still pending. i would very much like croatia to finally affirm its readiness to relaunch the sarajevo declaration and to bring to an end a situation that i consider highly sensitive, and this at least before its accession. i welcome very much the commitment of the commission to relaunch this spring the negotiations and i reiterate in front of you that this problem should be solved once and for all before croatia joins the eu. a final remark on turkey: when evaluating turkey i would invite you not to let our prejudgement based on religion, ethnicity and clichés to speak.
as the oomen ruijten report points out, turkey made a clear commitment to reform and good relations with its neighbours in 2009. moreover, the authorities have encouraged public debate on crucial areas of the reform process, such as the role of the judiciary, the rights of ethnic minorities, and the role of the military in the country's political life. the signing of the nabucco agreement also demonstrated turkey's commitment to creating security of gas supply in europe, as demonstrated by turkey's negotiations to join the european energy community. turkey has proven its key role as a regional actor by normalizing relations with armenia, as well as improving relations with iraq and the kurdish regional government. let us not forget, of course, the cooperation within the black sea synergy, launched three years ago with the aim of promoting stability and reform in the countries around the black sea. finally, i would like to mention a few of the main reasons for this country's accession to the union: turkey is clearly part of the european family and an important partner in the dialogue between civilisations. the approach of a secular, democratized and modern turkey to the union is certainly a plus for our community.
madam president, in its neighbourhood policy, the union’s objective has always been to export stability and not to import instability. this is why i appeal to member states and candidate countries not to promote bilateral conflicts to the level of the union. being a lawyer, i would like to recall that, through the interim accord between greece and fyrom signed in september 1995, greece agreed not to object to fyrom’s application to international or regional organisations if made under the name referred by the united nations, which is fyrom. the union’s institutions refer to this country as fyrom. these provisions are legally binding in terms of international law. therefore, there is no legal basis for greece to obstruct the country’s accession process. decisions must be taken on the performance of the applicant country. on this note, i support the debates on the progress made and the areas in which improvement is still needed. we need to talk about the merits and closely monitor the implementation of the reforms. based upon the progress made, the commission proposed that the country be given a date to start negotiations. i join the commission and call on the council to provide a starting date for accession negotiations at its summit in march 2010.
progress has been made in the protection of minorities in croatia and macedonia, but they are still far from excellent. what can we do? the eu could encourage these countries by setting an example in protecting minorities, but what is happening in the eu? it would be good if france and others ratified the charter for minority and regional languages, if slovakia abolished its measures discriminating against minorities, see the language act, and if greece also recognised that minorities live on its territory and guaranteed their individual and community rights. romania will hopefully have a minority law, but we are still far from having minorities in the leadership of the army, and they are more afraid of autonomy than the 14th russian army in transnistria. parliament could encourage the acceding countries to set a better example by making uniform standards for the protection of minorities across the union mandatory.
croatia continues to be the most advanced of the western balkan countries on the path to eu membership. it can serve as an example for the countries of the region on the prospects for accession in the context of compliance with the accession criteria and conditionalities. the progress made on internal reform is commendable, as also reflected in the 2009 progress report. the way in which the country meets the criteria for accession, in particular those deriving from chapter 23, justice and fundamental rights, is an important benchmark in the country's progress towards european standards. we support croatia's accession to the european union on the condition that it is based on strict compliance with the accession criteria, including full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. croatia will conclude its accession negotiations this year and so the report we are debating today is the latest progress report produced by the european parliament. we are confident that next year we will be in a position to vote on the treaty of accession of croatia to the european union, which will be a positive signal for the whole region.
the most effective external enlargement policy of the european union towards the western balkan states is that of enlargement in the region: this is the guarantee of peace and democratisation for a region whose recent history has unfortunately only reinforced its reputation as a 'powder-box of the european union'. in the mirror, the most effective foreign policy of the new western balkan states is that of belonging to the european union's area of stability and prosperity. in this process we need tools, so i welcome the country reports for croatia and macedonia, which are valuable tools. i also believe that economic instruments are needed, regional cooperation, economic, trade and investment instruments, which have already proven their effectiveness. i believe that these instruments should be considered by the european commission as well as by the governments of croatia and macedonia.
in writing. i believe that it is in the interest of both sides, the eu and turkey, that the enlargement process continues, and that turkey must therefore step up the reform process in order to meet its commitments. some examples: gender equality legislation is harmonised, but more effort is needed to implement it in order to close the gaps between men and women in labour market participation, in politics and decision-making, and in access to education. progress has been made in environmental protection, notably with the signing of the kyoto protocol, in this era of adapting to the effects of climate change, but much remains to be done in the fields of water quality, nature protection and gmos. i welcome the progress made by turkey but at the same time i support the call for ankara to make more efforts in the reform process to join the european club.
in writing. i hope that this year's evaluation report will encourage turkey to step up its foreign policy coordination with the eu. the black sea region should be a priority area where turkey, as a key eu partner, can contribute to the achievement of the european objectives set out in the black sea synergy. equally important is turkey's participation in ensuring the eu's energy security. last year, we welcomed turkey's participation in the nabucco project by signing the intergovernmental agreement. but i also expressed my deep concern about turkey's intention to cooperate with russia on the south stream project. i therefore insist on turkey's unequivocal commitment to the nabucco project. i welcome the rapporteur's call for the energy policies of turkey and the eu to be harmonised, in particular by opening accession negotiations on the energy chapter and by integrating turkey into the european energy community.
in writing. − ensuring access to housing for citizens, especially the vulnerable, in communities facing extreme poverty and marginalisation, must be a core concern of our society, and financial support from the structural funds can make a significant contribution to the efforts of national authorities to tackle this problem. both the european parliament and the council have repeatedly called on the european commission to act in favour of promoting the inclusion of these communities. today's vote has resulted in a new, amended regulation which will allow all 27 member states to use money from the european regional development fund (erdf) to renovate or replace housing in marginalised communities, thereby supporting the most deprived sections of society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i would like to stress that such periodic reviews of the texts governing the use of european funds are welcome. many of the restrictions provided for in these regulations are no longer adapted to the current economic and social situation, which requires new forms of intervention. another example is the relaxation of the conditions for the use of erdf funds to improve the energy efficiency of housing, approved by parliament last spring.
in writing. - the situation in the european union is not particularly favourable as regards the recovery of tax and duty claims. statistics tell us that the overall recovery rate is only 5%. in order to increase the effectiveness of debt recovery actions, close cooperation is needed at member state level. in this respect, i voted in favour of the proposal on mutual assistance in this area. i hope that this will help to address the shortcomings of the existing measures, which have caused a lack of transparency, coordination between states and an unjustified delay in the recovery process. the new directive aims to define more clearly the rules under which the competent authorities in the member states provide assistance, as well as the rights and obligations of the parties involved. uniform instruments will be developed to facilitate precautionary or enforcement measures, in order to avoid problems with the recognition and translation of documents issued by other authorities. the commission will support good cooperation between member states and will continuously monitor any complaints received in relation to the exchange of information or assistance.
in writing. − the european union, like the entire international community, is facing an important test of solidarity with regard to the situation in haiti. the forthcoming eu summit must respond with determination and coordination, in one voice, to the need for reconstruction and aid felt by haiti following one of the worst natural disasters in modern history. the call by the european parliament and the request to the european commission to come up with a concrete proposal to set up a civil protection force that can react quickly in the event of a natural disaster anywhere on earth must be answered. the 'haiti lesson' must not be forgotten and the european union must show, in this case, not only that it knows what solidarity means, but also that it is an adaptable and flexible institution, learning from the painful episodes of the present. the european union has all the data and tools to engage in the sustainable reconstruction of haiti. coordination with the united states and canada is required so that the entire international community can speak with one voice. the haitian people, who have been tested by history and nature, must receive from the international community the necessary tools to learn to help themselves.
in writing. − i believe that there is a need for better coordination and greater visibility of the eu in supporting the haitian state. the biggest challenge at the moment is the logistical blockage (limited capacity to land and unload cargo at port-au-prince airport) and finding a solution for those left homeless, especially in light of the upcoming rainy season. we need to think ahead and how we can act more quickly and effectively in such situations. i supported this resolution because it calls on the commissioner for international cooperation to give the european union a leading role in crisis situations, coordinating the european union's response to future crises more effectively and using the responsibilities created under the lisbon treaty. it is also of the utmost importance that the european executive submits proposals to parliament as soon as possible for the establishment of a european civil protection force based on the eu civil protection mechanism. it will enable the european union to mobilise the resources needed to provide emergency humanitarian aid within 24 hours of a disaster.
in writing. − i strongly consider and support the establishment of a permanent platform at eu level to ensure that policies on trafficking in human beings cover both social affairs and social inclusion issues, and to adopt appropriate and effective programmes for the social rehabilitation of victims, including measures relating to the labour market and the social security system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on trafficking in human beings because i believe it is very important to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings, which has reached worrying proportions and is a serious violation of fundamental human rights. the draft directive which will soon be put to the parliament for consideration must provide for strict sanctioning measures at european level for all those involved in this kind of trafficking. the member states' legislation on the harmonisation of penalties needs to be amended to maximise the penalties for traffickers, which currently vary considerably from one member state to another. in this respect, a crossborder approach to this scourge is also needed by intensifying cooperation with the countries of origin and transit, in some of which traffickers of live meat are only fined derisory fines. at the same time, protection and assistance must be provided for victims of trafficking in human beings, primarily women and children, who, according to data, constitute about 80% of the total number of victims.
in writing. - the trafficking of live meat is a growing market, comparable today to the trafficking of drugs or arms, and is widespread throughout the world, but more acute in less developed countries. according to the report of the un working group, trafficking victims come from all walks of life, from the richest to the poorest, from the most educated to the illiterate, from the youngest to the oldest. to combat this growing phenomenon more effectively, better coordination of information is needed. to this end, it would be useful for eurojust, europol and frontex to publish a joint report on trafficking in human beings each year. if the european union is to be a leader in respecting human rights, it should be more firmly involved in cooperation with third countries to facilitate the cessation of this phenomenon. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of recital x and most parts of paragraph 38, abstaining on one part of paragraph 38, for the following reasons: as a main principle, women’s sexual and reproductive rights should be respected, particularly in the context of equality between men and women, which is guaranteed by the eu charter of fundamental rights (art. 23). however, i believe women should learn to protect themselves from unwanted pregnancies; in other words, when there is easy access to contraception and specialised advice, then abortion is more difficult to justify. many in my electorate in romania would be disappointed if i voted differently. in addition, the past is still alive in our minds – as highlighted in the 2006 report commissioned by the president of romania – when the communist party took draconian measures against abortion in order to ensure the control of the party over women’s private life. many women died as a result of illegal abortions, performed without medical help.
in writing. - in romania, a 1967 decree banned abortions, and women lost the right to choose between continuing a pregnancy or terminating it. this ban has deeply traumatized romanian society, making us understand how dangerous such a decision is. women should have control over their sexual and reproductive rights. for this reason, i voted in favour of all the aspects of easy access to contraception and abortion in the tarabella report and, finally, in favour of the report on the substance.
in writing. - although i am not against abortion, i voted against paragraph 38 because it can be interpreted as encouraging this practice. i am also in favour of facilitating access to contraception and education on these issues because it is the best way to avoid unwanted pregnancies. on the other hand, i think if there are communities that for various reasons want to retain jurisdiction over abortion regulation at the national level, they should be able to do so. it is an area where the principle of subsidiarity should apply and i do not think that discussing this issue in the report on equality between women and men in the european union is the best solution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the 2009 country report on croatia. i think it is a balanced report, which mentions the progress made by croatia in meeting the criteria for accession to the european union. after a stalemate of more than nine months, accession negotiations were resumed in october 2009. croatia needs to continue the reform process and adopt european legislation in order to complete the negotiations by the end of this year. the report also identifies a number of problems affecting croatia's eu integration process. the european parliament encourages the croatian authorities to overcome these obstacles and to step up their efforts to resolve all border disputes with neighbouring countries. the report adopted by the european parliament's plenary includes my proposed amendments. they encourage ukraine to continue its efforts to promote cultural diversity. my proposal to support the development by croatia of crossborder cooperation projects designed to achieve social, economic and territorial cohesion and to raise the living standards of people living in border regions was also included.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amendment 6 because i agree that the government of croatia needs to make supplementary efforts to reduce prejudice and combat discrimination on any grounds, including sexual orientation (one of the non-discrimination grounds in art. 21 of the eu charter of fundamental rights). my approach on the issue of sexual orientation discrimination, as well as regarding discrimination against any minority, is consistent with eu legislation and other international human rights law and with the views of many of my electorate in romania, as well as with my beliefs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 country report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because i believe it is an important report which will have a positive influence on the accession process of this country. the prospect of accession to the european union is the main factor ensuring stability and continuation of the reform process in the western balkans, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the report notes the progress made by the country in adopting the legislation necessary for integration into the european union. i believe that in the period ahead the authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must pay particular attention to the implementation of the adopted rules. efforts must also be made to improve interethnic relations, dialogue with neighbouring countries and align environmental protection legislation. the report adopted today includes my proposed amendments, which recommend strengthening the capacity to manage the pre-accession funds made available by the european union and support the implementation of the necessary reforms in the accession process.
in writing. − i consider that the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia made significant progress in 2009, as also indicated in the resolution on the 2009 activity report. in my vote in favour i particularly appreciated: visa liberalisation, participation in eu civilian and military missions, accreditation of national authorities for the ipa components on regional and rural development, and progress made in preparations to take over the management of funds under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). i hope that accession negotiations will be opened in the near future and that the european council will confirm at its summit in march that it accepts the commission's recommendation to open negotiations. as regards the name issue, i agree with the rapporteur's position that greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must intensify their efforts at the highest level to find a mutually acceptable solution under the auspices of the un. i also believe that the european union should assist in the negotiation process.
in writing. − i voted in favor of amendment 18 because the adoption of sexual-orientation anti-discrimination provisions is a requirement for eu accession and because increased legal protection against discrimination is a message that the government sends to the whole society about the value of all members of society. sexual orientation is one of the non-discrimination grounds in article 21 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. my approach on the issue of sexual-orientation discrimination, as well as regarding the discrimination of any minority, is consistent with eu legislation and other international human rights law, with the views of many in my electorate in romania, as well as with my beliefs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the 2009 country report on turkey. although accession negotiations with turkey started on 3 october 2005, little progress has been made so far. the european parliament considers that turkey does not yet meet the political criteria of copenhagen. comprehensive constitutional reform is needed to ensure better respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european commission noted that turkey made some limited progress in political reforms during 2009. the situation in turkey has improved as regards freedom of expression in minority languages. i believe that the european union must continue its dialogue with turkey and show openness towards this country. turkey is very important for europe both from the perspective of economic and political ties and for the union's energy security. my country wants to develop its partnership with turkey both in the framework of the black sea synergy and in the framework of the european union's neighbourhood programmes.
the council sent the agreement to the european parliament very late, which is inexplicable and i hope that such incidents will not happen again. on the other hand, i was very pleasantly surprised by the intensive cooperation of the american authorities with the european parliament. suddenly, they heard about this institution, which i hope will happen again in the future. i expect the same interest from the us authorities in the equal treatment of member states in relation to the visa waver programme. the united states has remained indebted to the introduction of clear and transparent criteria for visa refusal in some member states. however, i believe that the interim agreement should be supported because it will contribute to the security of european citizens. the approval of this agreement should not, however, put an end to the negotiations with the united states for a long-term agreement which would include all the objections raised by this parliament.
i would like to make it clear from the outset that through this debate, we are not only affirming the existence of the terrorist threat, but we are also highlighting the need to be one step ahead in the fight against this phenomenon. the discussion of introducing body scanners at airports in all eu member states has broader implications. the effectiveness of this measure is contested because ingested substances or powdered explosives are not detected by this technology. but we also have a safety concern for the health of passengers, especially those who frequently pass through these filters. we cannot ignore the issue of basic civil rights, the right to privacy and dignity, as long as scanners provide a detailed view of the human body. in my view, independent studies are needed to determine the safety of the technology used, but also its effectiveness. )
i would like to draw the attention of the commission, the council and our colleagues to the side effects and the high risk of cancer and genetic mutations from repeated exposure to x-rays and t-rays. the effects and risks of x-ray radiation are known to the medical profession, which does not recommend repeated exposure to such radiation. the effects of tetra hertz radiation are less well known to the public. in addition to the fact that t-ray scanners are capable of creating accurate 3d images of the human body, which violates the individual's right to privacy, repeated exposure to such radiation can lead to the creation of dna damage and, later, to the appearance of genetic abnormalities. i would like to stress that the risks and discomforts we could face in the event of widespread use of body scanners, as well as the uncertainty of their effectiveness, do not justify such a solution. (the speaker was interrupted by the president. )
in writing. terrorism remains a high threat in the european union; therefore, all member states have stepped up their efforts to improve the tools used to prevent and combat it. the adoption of the lisbon treaty offers the possibility of reacting much more effectively in all areas directly or indirectly linked to the fight against terrorism. the issue of body scanners is a delicate one. i believe that these are important issues that need to be carefully considered before a decision is taken in this area. these concern the efficiency of scanners, the respect of the right to privacy, the economic impact of their use in view of the particularly high cost of their acquisition and, in particular, the way in which the use of these devices affects the health of those who will be monitored by them. the european commission is to develop three studies on the use and effects of body scanners; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet).
in writing. it is our duty as meps to get involved in solving the problems raised by the subject of body scanners, both in terms of the fight against terrorism and in terms of the civil and individual rights of europeans. i'm all for finding viable solutions to enhance the safety of our citizens. but we have an obligation to ensure that all the rights of our citizens are protected within the european union. this implies the right to privacy and the fundamental right to personal dignity, which must be balanced against the concept of security of airport facilities. the question that arises in this context is whether these body scanners are the most viable solution to solve airport security problems. i believe that europe must say yes to finding solutions to combat terrorism and organised crime and no to disregard for the right to privacy and personal dignity, which is a basic principle of democracy.
in writing. – every time a real or would-be terrorist boards a plane, fooling the vigilance of our brave security guards and their wonderful machines, millions of passengers get a more miserable life for years to come. the 9/11 terrorists have been successful beyond imagination: they managed to alter our lives – for the worse – forever! we, in the east, wanted to get rid of our ‘big brother’ and we got in exchange the ‘western’ variant, more sophisticated but no less scary. many ‘security guards’ on some airports misbehave; they consider themselves above the law, looking at every passenger as a suspect, taking the liberty to inspect every bit of luggage without any explanation and, of course, excuse, when their ‘suspicion’ proved unfounded! and when you dare to protest, they laugh in your face! you would agree this is an abuse! it is high time, then, that the commission looked into the activity of these firms and imposed some standards of behaviour towards the large mass of honest citizens. after all, we have a charter of fundamental rights to be respected equally by every european, including those in charge of security in our airports.
i hope that the ukrainian authorities will step up their efforts to cooperate externally with the european union and to align themselves internally with european standards. the eastern partnership and euronest provide the right framework. regardless of the color of the new administration, the question is not whether ukraine should remain eastern or become western. the question is whether ukraine can consolidate its internal democracy. this means democratic norms and the defence of human rights. a sensitive chapter is, for example, the situation of the romance-speaking minority in ukraine and its right to education in its mother tongue. on the external front, ukraine should be encouraged to cooperate with the european union by developing good neighbourly relations with eu member states. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, including the fight against terrorism. finally, strengthening relations with the pro-european government of the republic of moldova can be an immediate and beneficial step towards a good neighbourhood policy.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me once again thank you for the opportunity of addressing you today. i believe that this has been a useful exchange of views, taking some concrete suggestions and remarks to reflect on. as i said at the beginning, ukraine matters. it remains a partner of strategic importance for the european union, and a leader in the region. eu-ukraine relations have deepened considerably in the past years. i firmly believe that this dynamic should continue in the future. the pace and depth of the rapprochement of ukraine to the european union will depend on the implementation of reform. that will encourage me to be even braver. the eu stands ready to support ukraine in this task, with a wide range of tools at its disposal. nevertheless, we look to the new leadership to demonstrate the political will for reform in the interests of ukraine’s future stability and prosperity.
in writing. ukraine is of particular importance to the european union from the perspective of participating in the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy of eu energy security. my speech today is about a lesser-known but particularly concerning aspect of ukraine. more than half a million ethnic romanians live in this country, to whom the kiev authorities have shown little interest in guaranteeing basic rights. it is the first time, however, that a new concept of governance has been promoted in the election campaign in romania's neighbouring country. one of the candidates assured romanians in this country that he would support the introduction of romanian as a regional language where they are in the majority. ukraine today faces two value systems. some citizens want to be closer to the european union, want our values, such as freedom and peace, to be guaranteed. another category of citizens looks with suspicion at the european construction. ukraine needs eu support and solidarity to continue the reforms it has started so that there is no longer this east-west divide.
in writing. with the election of viktor yanukovych as president, ukraine enters a new stage that will bring it closer to the eu. as a member of the parliamentary committee on cooperation with ukraine, but also as a european citizen, i believe that the european union can and must tip the balance towards the european and democratic path of its eastern neighbour. the european parliament's election observation commission has assessed the legal and uninterrupted conduct of the elections as a guarantee of the new president's legitimacy, especially in contrast to the 2004-2005 elections. the change in policy must not affect our approach to ukraine, which must remain as consistent and even more effective. while it is well known that yanukovich will not weaken relations with russia, it does not mean that he will move away from the eu, and precisely to avoid this risk, however small, we are obliged to be proactive in managing relations with ukraine, the only one capable of ensuring stability in the area. we must be open, through dialogue and firm commitments, to give ukraine the necessary encouragement in a pro-european development. i express my confidence in ukraine's ability to resume reforms and to demonstrate that it is a reliable partner for the eu.
in writing. i hope that the new president will take into account the pro-european orientation expressed by the majority of ukrainians. the association agreement is under negotiation and i think it's in both our interests to conclude it as soon as possible. electoral commitments must be fulfilled. one is respect for minority rights and the elimination of policies of denationalization and assimilation of ethnic minorities. romania can be an example for ukraine in bringing the situation of minorities up to european standards. in this regard, the deputy representing the ukrainian community in romania in the parliament of romania can be a good advisor and i recommend him to the future president of ukraine.
in writing. ukraine is a european state and shares all european cultural values. ukraine needs the honest and effective implementation of a political programme guaranteeing the rights of national minorities: russian, tatar, romanian, polish, hungarian, greek and others. the european charter for regional or minority languages, which guarantees their status as regional languages, needs to be implemented. i believe that the eu must support the implementation of such measures, insisting that no minority is left behind. for example, in ukraine there is a romanian-speaking minority of over 410,000 people. it is a traditional national community with deep historical roots, living in harmony with the majority and other minorities, especially in the chernivtsi region (northern bukovina, northern bessarabia and the herzegovina area), in the odessa region (the districts of southern bessarabia), in the transcarpathian region (historical maramureș). i believe that the eu should encourage the ukrainian authorities to develop romanian-language teaching units in vocational schools and high schools in the cities of the above-mentioned regions. the eu should also work with kiev to establish romanian-language departments at the state university of chernobyl in all existing profiles and specialisations.
in writing. it is good that last sunday's elections in ukraine were held in good conditions. their outcome must be recognized by all parties involved, because a democracy cannot be built on suspicion and permanent contestation. i regret that yulia tymoshenko lost the election. but i regret even more his statements in the latter part of the campaign, which challenged the decision of the international court of justice regarding the black sea continental shelf. i hope that the ukrainian government, whether it is headed by mrs. tymoshenko or someone else, will assume that such a decision is final.
in writing. in the event of victory, viktor yanukovych promised the following measures to the hungarian minority in ukraine: immediate withdrawal of restrictive measures affecting the hungarian education system, hungarian schoolchildren and graduates; free use of the mother tongue in education, the judiciary, the state administration, the media, etc.; free use of national symbols, unhindered contact with the motherland; involvement of representatives of the community in the local, regional, national state administration. the results of the presidential elections in regions with a higher density of hungarians and the tightness of the final result prove that the votes of the hungarian community contributed to a large proportion of yanukovych's victory. we can see that in the heat of the campaign, yulia tymoshenko also promised to remove discriminatory measures affecting mother tongue education, but this sounded unreliable coming from the mouth of a politician who has been in office for 5 years and during that time has shown no interest in minority issues. the ukrainian hungarian and rusyn minorities are now looking to yanukovych with hope, expecting him to recognize the regional status of minorities, to put the majority-minority relationship on a new foundation. but if the new ukrainian president does not deliver on his promises - say in exchange for supporting ukrainian nationalists - then not only will he lose the support of minority communities, but the much-touted creation of a european ukraine could be delayed for years.
acting president of the council. - madam president, we believe that this is certainly part of a common energy policy and that it is not possible to make energy islands from a technical point of view at the same time as energy islands from a political point of view. that is not at all a position that can be called europeanist and, in fact, it has not been so in practice. i would remind you that when the debate on the regulation on measures to ensure the security of energy supply took place, there was a european commitment in this respect, and i am referring in particular to the energy projects approved under the economic recovery programme carried out during the czech presidency last year; eur 425 million was allocated to three interconnection projects in the baltic area: the scanled baltic gas pipeline interconnector, the estlink-2 electricity interconnector and the sweden-baltic states interconnector. the spanish presidency will therefore encourage the member states to support energy infrastructure projects in the baltic sea region, although it is true that it is the member states which then implement the specific projects in accordance with national legislation and the applicable european legislation. and in that case, therefore, those member states must also act with one voice.
mr minister, i would like to draw attention to the importance of integrating renewable energy sources into the national energy grid, since the european energy network is made up of the energy networks of the member states. the baltic countries are an example of good practice in the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency in buildings. an internal energy market requires better interconnection of national energy networks. i would like to ask you if you have an action plan with the member states on the use of renewable energy.
acting president of the council. - madam president, we agree with the formulation that has been made in relation to renewable energies and their integration into the european energy grid. we also believe that this is one of the key objectives of the european union's strategy to combat climate change, which was advocated at the copenhagen conference. we want to have 20% renewable energy in the european energy mix by 2020 and we want this approach to be included in the second energy action plan 2010-2014, which we would like to see approved during the spanish presidency. the objective of the action plan is therefore clearly on the agenda for this semester, shared, of course, by the trio of presidencies, belgium and hungary, because it is a strategic objective. in connection with what mr obermayr said, we also believe that diversification of sources is certainly a strategic objective, as i have said before. in fact, the european union and its institutions are acting very proactively, giving all their political support to projects such as nabucco, north stream and south stream. all these projects have a very clear objective: diversify the various sources of energy, diversify the suppliers, diversify the different channels through which energy is distributed. they are certainly part of the strategy towards a europe with a real common energy market, which it does not have at the moment. all of this is necessary to have that market and to have that energy security which is the basis of all of this.
acting president of the council. - madam president, there is no doubt that the 2020 strategy is probably the most ambitious, the most important objective of the near future, of the immediate future, and in fact it will be the focus of the debates which will take place tomorrow in brussels at the informal european council, which has therefore started at the highest political level in the spanish presidency. it is a question of advocating and approving a programme for growth and quality job creation which will replace the so-called lisbon strategy and which is based, on the one hand, on the emphasis on certain aspects which we need for the competitiveness and productivity of the european economy of the future and which are identified as essential, such as investment in information technologies; making europe a place for the knowledge society; also focusing on the social aspects, i.e. that employability is therefore based on the specialisation and training of workers and, of course, on a green economy, a low-carbon economy, from the point of view of the contents of which we have spoken initially. but also with a fundamental element which will certainly be something that will polarize the debates tomorrow in brussels, which is the issue of governance. the president of the european council is going to bring to this informal european council an initial proposal for a debate on governance, that is, going towards an economic union in europe, not just a monetary union, on the basis of making it mandatory - because that is what the treaty of lisbon says - that economic policies, employment policies and social policies are coordinated within the european union. it is therefore a key element of the strategy for sustainable development and the creation of quality jobs, a central, main objective of the spanish presidency and of europe as a whole. the proof of this is that we have immediately begun to tackle it from above with that informal council meeting in brussels tomorrow.
we now have the comments from those interested. the public consultation on the commission's website on the eu 2020 strategy has been closed. but we have 10% unemployment in the european union, and in spain and latvia it's up to 20%. so i would like to know what measures are being taken for the citizens of the european union to maintain and create jobs and, above all, to improve their quality of life?
i congratulate the commissioner on his new post and ask him to elaborate, if possible, on the effects of the economic crisis on world trade in agricultural products. mrs andrikienė has already mentioned the case of the russian federation, which has announced that it is prepared to ban imports of poultry meat by 2015 because it meets its needs from domestic production. since promoting a more competitive agriculture in an open world trade is one of the tasks entrusted by president barroso to the new commissioner for agriculture, i take advantage of the presence of the commissioner in parliament to ask him how he views cooperation with his colleague responsible for agriculture in finalising the doha round negotiations.
the regulation of the gambling market in the european union is a delicate issue, whether we are talking about conventional or online gambling. the online gambling industry has grown in recent years and is a highly profitable industry. there are voices that support banning them and voices that, on the contrary, believe that banning them would lead to an increase in these activities in the context of a lack of regulation. both the european union and the member states share common objectives in the effort to better regulate gambling: to protect minors, to find solutions to addiction problems, to put in place appropriate supervision measures in terms of transparency and advertising rules, and to prevent addiction and excessive use of online gambling. in the absence of harmonisation of legislation, member states are free to set their policy objectives in this area and to define the level of protection sought. although the aims seem to be the same, the problem of regulating this area is not easy to solve. but we cannot deny the reality - gambling is an important economic activity which is not entirely subject to the rules of the internal market. unrestricted by technical barriers, they are accessible across borders and generate billions of euros in profits. the decisions of the european court of justice do not bring together those with differing views on the appropriate way to regulate. the commission continues to face a contradictory reality: the competence of member states to regulate this area and the complaints lodged by game providers against restrictions imposed at national level. i'm not a big fan of online gambling. i can say that i am rather against them, but i believe that we must start from the reality of the existence of these games and that is why we need to draw up harmonised legislation to regulate the activity of economic operators, but above all to provide for measures to support consumers. we need to ensure that online gambling is handled responsibly, ensure the protection of minors and vulnerable people, prevent addiction and avoid organised crime.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i think it is important that, on behalf of the commission, i make the following statement, which parliament asked for. the financial contribution from the european union budget for the facility, for the period 1 january 2010 to 31 december 2013, has been set at eur 100 million, to be partly financed by a reduction of eur 60 million in the progress programme. when presenting its draft budgets, the commission will leave a sufficient unallocated margin under the expenditure ceiling of heading 1a, whereby the budgetary authority – the council and parliament – may decide to increase the amount of the progress programme by a maximum of eur 20 million over the period 2011-2013, in conformity with point 37 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission would support a postponement of the vote. it will give the new commission a chance to create a new momentum on this difficult dossier and it would also give the european parliament more time to see how we intend to process this further. the commission is committed to a very ambitious timetable. i would like to confirm what mr daul said – that the commission will adopt the mandate for a new long-term agreement on 24 february if you agree to postpone the vote. i am ready to come to you personally the same day to present the mandate. the council will get it the day after in brussels in order to consider it. i am sure that the spanish presidency will do everything they can to agree to the mandate as soon as possible. the commission will then immediately launch negotiations with the us to try to conclude them as soon as possible. we will, within those powers, keep the european parliament fully informed at all stages of the process. my goal is to achieve a new agreement with very ambitious safeguards for privacy and data protection. i think we can build trust on both sides of the atlantic for tracking financing, but of course this has to be done while fully assuring the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights.
on behalf of the epp group. special thanks to the rapporteur. on behalf of the people's group i welcome the final vote on the progress programme. the people's group, which i represented in the drafting of the report, has always advocated the initiative and measures to tackle the economic and social disparities between the member states. the report voted on today meets one of the epp's main objectives: support for micro-enterprises, coupled with a concern for social inclusion. today's vote also guarantees that the programmes covered by the progress framework will not be curtailed and thus achieves another objective of the epp. i think the most important element of today's vote is contained in article 1 of the report. it also reflects the balanced approach that the epp has consistently advocated on the question of sources of project funding. the budget line for the microfinance facility is thus made up of eur 60 million from progress sources and eur 40 million from other sources. this is consistent with the epp approach, which seeks both a rapid launch of the programme and the prudence required by the budgetary constraints we are currently facing. thank you again for your vote today and for your continued support in the preparation of this report.
in writing. − through progress, europe has addressed the major issues facing its citizens, helping to achieve the objectives of employment, social inclusion and equal opportunities. the establishment of a new microfinance facility is a beneficial initiative, given the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing and the need to rebuild european economies. for these reasons, new programmes should not be financed by reducing current priorities. the solution adopted today partially solves a large part of the funding problem. even if it is not the best possible, i voted for it because it is very important to have a european microfinance instrument. the eur 100 million, plus a further eur 20 million for the period 2011-2013, will constitute a separate credit line. this tool should be a useful aid for unemployed and vulnerable people who want to start or develop micro-enterprises. i believe that the european microfinance facility should have an even bigger budget to be truly effective in achieving its employment and social inclusion objectives.
in writing. − the rejection of the swift agreement should be an important signal to the entire international community and to the other bodies of the union that community legislation must henceforth be consulted on major decisions now falling within the powers conferred by the treaty of lisbon. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the press overseas is rushing to talk about the meps' vote as a vote against the agreement. meps voted to protect the personal data of eu citizens and companies. the fight against terrorism and the swift identification of suspicious bank transfers remain as high as ever on the union's list of priorities. the european commission must quickly renegotiate the terms of the swift agreement so that it is in line with the european charter of human rights and can enter into force as soon as possible. the romanian government, like all national governments, supported the adoption of the agreement with the us. the european parliament has done its duty as an institution directly elected by the citizens of the union it is committed to protecting.
in writing. − the rejection of the interim agreement on the transfer of banking data to the united states via the swift network on grounds of personal data protection, proportionality and reciprocity should not be understood as an exercise of parliament's new powers under the lisbon treaty, but as a european political message. by rejecting this agreement and voting in favour of the ep recommendation, we have shown that no major political decision can be taken when it is contrary to the provisions of the lisbon treaty and in particular the fundamental charter of human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the fight against terrorism remains one of the major challenges of the present day and in this context a new agreement is necessary, but it must be better negotiated to really guarantee the protection of european citizens. parliament must therefore play a central role in the drafting of the new agreement, in a procedure which respects the letter of the treaty.
in writing. - i voted against the swift agreement with the united states because it is not so much a tool in the fight against terrorism as a threat to the privacy of european citizens. the recent agreement between the european union and the united states is a challenge to the european parliament, given that it was signed just one day before the lisbon reform came into force. parliament was not consulted on this agreement in time and now it is too late; we have said no to the agreement and we hope that both the united states and the council will realise how important the european parliament is in decision-making at union level. i am convinced that a better agreement can be reached under the spanish presidency.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression is not a virtual right on which we can agree without relating it to the political and social reality of a country. the freedom of the media to express critical opinions about a government or politicians, whether presidents, officials or the opposition, is the most important guarantee that a people can have - that is, access to a plurality of information - so that their right to vote is not a deception. unfortunately, the reality in venezuela is that, after many undemocratic acts by the government of president chávez against the opposition, it seems that the time has come to put an end to the press as well. this is not only the latest case of rctv international, which the venezuelan audiovisual authority imposed a retroactive law on, but also the closure of 34 of the most popular radio stations since july 2009 in venezuela. globovisión, on the other hand, which still maintains an independent editorial line from the government, is being pressured to change it. let's not forget that the most perverse way to eliminate the media is to provoke self-censorship. after the closure of the 34 radio stations, the government of hugo chávez formally announced that there is a list of other radio stations that are also about to be closed; a list that no one knows because there are no open procedures, but with which uncertainty is maintained with the sole purpose of provoking self-censorship. and all these abuses occur without the competent courts responding to the actions brought. in a country where a universal principle such as the non-retroactivity of the law is not respected, where the judiciary does not respond to any appeal until it receives instructions from the president, there is neither a rule of law nor a separation of powers. there is simply no such thing as democracy. sadly, that country is today's venezuela.
in my opinion, hugo chávez has taken from the totalitarian socialism of the last century everything that can be worse. i'm not referring to his attitude towards foreign investment, which is, of course, very problematic, as long as it's the expression of complete arbitrariness. i am referring, however, to his attitude towards freedom of the press and what pluralism is, because hugo chávez is trying to mimic pluralism, simply by shutting down radio stations that refuse to broadcast his current speech and inventing public stations to mimic pluralism. mimicking pluralism is not the same as accepting pluralism, because a democracy does not live off its caricatures. chávez's closest associates have already been named. he's a dictator simply because he hates pluralism and i don't think socialists have anything to defend it for. one of the victims of the recent demonstrations is, incidentally, a socialist student.
in writing. – i support this resolution, for i am concerned with the undemocratic measures taken by the government in venezuela, specifically those curtailing the rights to free press, expression and assembly, as well as with the high level of corruption, as perceived by the people of venezuela. control of the media and of different opinions is typical for totalitarian regimes. as reported by human rights groups, in january 2010, the chávez government threatened to take action against cable providers that aired channels that did not comply with the government requirement to interrupt regular broadcasting in order to broadcast presidential speeches. as a result, the country’s cable providers stopped broadcasting seven channels. in 2009, chávez forced stations to transmit live 141 speeches, including one that lasted seven hours and 34 minutes. as regards corruption, the government should fully and effectively implement the united nations convention against corruption and the other relevant instruments, and take seriously venezuelans’ concerns about corruption – an indicator of good governance in any country.
author. - mr president, in madagascar the problems of instability persist despite the initiatives of the african union and the un. mr. rajoelina refuses to share power and pushes away all those who oppose him. recently, he stated his intention to hold general elections without taking into account the timetable provided for in the maputo and addis ababa agreements. it is no exaggeration to say that the unconstitutional regime of andry rajeolina has seized all three branches of the state, and is doing its best on the media as well. unfortunately for madagascar, the human rights violations of the former president's regime continued after andry rajeolina declared himself president of the high transitional authority. the security forces he leads have frequently intervened violently to disperse opposition protests, resulting in deaths and injuries. in its report of 4 february 2010, amnesty international shows that parliamentarians, senators, lawyers, opposition leaders and journalists have been arbitrarily and unlawfully arrested and detained, some of them ill-treated during their arrest, while the authorities have not conducted any investigation. unfortunately, once again, reality shows us that those who come to power through violence rule through violence.
on behalf of the epp group. as already pointed out, the situation of uncertainty and political instability in madagascar has lasted for more than a year and, although at one point some hopes were placed in the negotiation process, the actions taken by andry rajoelina only block the process, complicating the return to constitutional order. i am referring to the dismissal of the prime minister appointed under the maputo accords, the withdrawal from the process of negotiation with the political groups and the recent decision to hold elections in a hasty manner, without taking into account previous agreements. it is, in my opinion, an attempt to give a semblance of legality and legitimize a regime that came to power through a coup d'état, which rajoelina cannot overcome. it is clear that the return to constitutional order can only be achieved by the full implementation of the maputo and addis ababa agreements.
mr president, the military junta has ruled the country through repression and committing gross and systematic human rights violations. as an elected representative of citizens, i call for free and fair parliamentary elections in 2010, to have a legitimate government in burma. the current requirement to have at least 25% of the parliament as members of the military selected by the chief of defence services falls outside any common sense vision about what a legitimate government is. second, i note that the government of the military junta signed the united nations convention against corruption in 2005 but failed to ratify it. ratification, however, should only be regarded as a first step: implementation is the key when it comes to combating corruption. corruption brings poverty and impunity.
the military junta promised free, democratic elections throughout 2010. it is important that the international community and of course the eu keep up the pressure on the junta in order to make a real democratic transition. the adequate participation of the many national minorities in burma in the elections should also be ensured. this could end the series of ethnic conflicts. china might be the best candidate for minority chinese, but it should first respect its own minorities: the tibetans and the uighurs. the eu can only be credible and effective in applying pressure if it respects the rights of minorities in all its member states. as long as there are language laws in the union - and i am not just talking about slovakia - as long as the law of collective guilt for denying the second world war is still being heated up in the union, as long as the very existence, the mother tongue and the rights of minorities are denied in the union, the union cannot be credible in the exercise of pressure. it's not working.
someone said earlier that burma was mentioned here. i think we need to keep talking, because burma remains one of the most repressive and closed societies in the world. as various united nations courts and human rights organizations have shown, the systematic violation of individual rights in that country continues to be a feature of life there. arrests for political opinions are a common occurrence. there have also been violent repressions of opposition voices, whether it be student opposition or that of the buddhist monk community. i do not think that the holding of elections is at this point a matter for consideration because there must first of all be a process of consultation with all the political parties. otherwise, without a free, transparent and inclusive process, burma's democracy remains a military circus.
madam president, mr president-in-office, i am glad you are here with us, i do not understand the haste with which a decision is being taken by the council without serious consultation of the european parliament. we need the 2020 strategy because the lisbon strategy has not proven effective. but the documents circulating are general, they do not provide clear elements regarding future challenges. one example is the social dimension. europe's social problem is the sharp ageing of its population, as well as the lack of highly qualified workers. under these circumstances, the allocation of less than 2% of gross domestic product to research, development and innovation is a first mistake which must be rectified quickly. research, development, could be based on public-private partnerships and encouraging business people to invest in labs and research institutes to discourage the migration of grey matter to the united states or japan.
at the beginning of the year, the unemployment rate was at 10%, and the deficit in many member states was rising. european citizens expect immediate solutions to the fundamental challenges of today: demographic change, climate change, the economic and financial crisis. the european union must invest as a priority in creating and maintaining jobs, in education, health, agriculture and transport and energy infrastructure. the union needs a sustainable energy strategy and modern, safe and efficient transport infrastructure. we need to invest in energy efficiency measures for both homes and industrial upgrades, potentially creating over two million new jobs by 2020. the reduction of emissions also means modernising industrial plants within the european union, not relocating european industry to third countries. last but not least, the ageing of the population and the declining birth rate require reform of social systems to ensure a decent living for all eu citizens.
in writing. the economic crisis has had a profound negative impact on the growth potential of the countries of the union. i have followed the debate on this subject and i have noticed that the focus has been on measures to get out of the crisis and to recover economic growth in financial terms. while it is certainly good to approach problems in order of severity, it is important to realize that the situation is not the same as it was before the crisis. what needs to change is the economic model itself, which needs to be based more on innovation, clean energy and attention to the health of people. we can't have a performing economy if we don't have motivated workers, and we can't have a sustainable economy if we only support environmental protection halfway. recovering the growth potential i believe has to start with changing the economic model itself, which has to focus on what creates innovation and human motivation. the way out of the crisis is not primarily a matter of economic or fiscal policies.
in writing. the current economic crisis is the most serious in decades, with its effects in halving the growth potential at union level. the economic downturn is accompanied by an accelerating ageing of the population, which is hampering the recovery of the eu economies. in these circumstances, strategy 2020, which is intended to be a continuation of the lisbon strategy, must create the conditions for sustainable growth and fiscal consolidation. thus, lifelong learning needs to be much more accessible and universities need to be much more open to atypical students. better supply-demand matching and greater labour mobility will provide workers with more opportunities where their skills are most needed. to reduce poverty and exclusion, we need modern social security and pension systems. employment policy must focus on the flexibility of the labour market, with employees being responsible for their working lives through continuous training, adaptation to change and mobility. adjusting to the context of the crisis and the ageing of the european population is essential so that we are able to ensure an adequate level of support for people temporarily out of work.
in writing. i join my colleagues who have raised the issue of the absence of agriculture in the eu 2020 strategy. i believe that agriculture is a sector which can contribute to the development of the european union and at the same time an important sector because it is at the heart of the european way of life. last but not least, agriculture needs special attention because it has been hit very hard by the economic crisis. to appreciate the extent of the effects, it is sufficient to look at the reduction in real income per worker in agriculture, which has reached up to 35% in some of the member states of the european union.
in writing. – in line with the opening statement by president van rompuy, my intervention is devoted to the implementation of the lisbon treaty. while in theory the creation of the high representative’s double-hatted position looks good, in practice, given its ‘uniqueness’, it creates problems unforeseen by the authors of the treaty. in absence of a deputy, equally double-hatted, the high representative will more and more have to choose between staying in brussels and being present, for instance, at the european parliament, and flying to a foreign capital, where the eu needs equally high representation. of course, lady ashton can ‘deputise’, but, if she does, it will have to be on an ‘ad hoc’ basis, at the expense of either the council or the commission. and if the ‘rotating presidency’ steps back in to restore balance, we end up with more bureaucracy, rather than less bureaucracy.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy must be a game changer. otherwise, the eu 2020 will be a lisbon 2, a strategy that will have to be corrected in 10 years by another new strategy. eu 2020 must clearly mark the launch of the post-lisbon phase. we need to prioritise the strategy we are launching so that the reforms that eu 2020 will generate are sustainable in the medium and long term. there are three priority themes that the eu 2020 must set out unequivocally. active support for smes by linking community programmes with macroeconomic policies. this approach will ensure a healthy economic environment for private actors. then, an education system that prepares the workforce to meet the demands of the market. this process will ensure a better level of employment in the member states. finally, the european parliament must have a greater say. in this way, real information from member states will be able to be exploited and prevent the deepening of divergences between member states' economies. an eu 2020 strategy organised around clear priorities will speed up the resumption of economic growth in the eu, especially in the current financial and economic stresses.
i begin by recalling that when it was created as the sole human rights body within the united nations system, the human rights council marked a hope, namely the hope of increasing the protection of fundamental rights worldwide. the establishment of the universal periodic review mechanism, which is the most important innovation since the defunct commission on human rights, was intended to address the problem of excessive politicization and selectivity in dealing with cases of serious human rights violations. this mechanism is essential if the human rights council is to fulfil its mandate in any way. it should be stressed, however, that the old demons have not entirely disappeared and that excessive politicization continues to affect the work of this body. on the other hand, it must be said that the universal periodic review mechanism is not sufficient to ensure effective protection of human rights. when the council does not react quickly enough, as happened, to take one example, in guinea, in the case of the guinea crisis, this has very serious consequences: the perpetrators of human rights violations may simply feel that they have nothing to worry about. the council's credibility thus depends on its ability to act firmly and swiftly when serious human rights violations occur. in this connection, it is important that the european union promote the creation of mechanisms at the level of the human rights council dedicated to responding to crises such as those in, to take recent examples, afghanistan, guinea-conakry, iran, yemen or iraq. it is, i believe, in the european parliament's interest that this body, the human rights council, should be as strong and effective as possible, because, i say, we need a credible partner in the human rights dialogue.
i would like to refer to the situation in the gaza strip, which, as you know, is a constant concern for human rights, especially after the worsening of the situation following the clashes last winter. i don't think we can measure who has suffered more in this conflict, the military actions of both sides have made, unfortunately, mostly civilians suffer, but in the context of the situation on the ground, it is very difficult to differentiate between military and civilians, as far as the palestinians are concerned, and on the other hand, hamas's rocket attacks were aimed at terrorizing israeli civilians. i visited the area during the conflict, i saw the problems and fears on both sides, and i think any attempt to blame only one side for what happened is inconsistent with reality. the bloody clashes in gaza and their dramatic humanitarian consequences are a painful plea for concerted action in all sensitive areas of the world, in particular against the causes of suffering of defenceless civilians, and for the deeper and more effective involvement of international structures in order to promote dialogue for peace. it is an area where the european union has both the capacity and the credibility to act more strongly on the world stage.
in the context of today's debate, i would like to bring to your attention the case of israeli soldier ghilad shalit, abducted from kerem shalom in june 2006, a soldier aged just 19. last week i was part of the official delegation of the european parliament to israel, and one of the meetings was with ghilad shalit's father, noam shalit. despite the provisions of articles 13, 23 and 126 of the geneva convention on the rights of prisoners of war, ghilad, who is also a french citizen, is denied the right to be visited by his family and the international red cross, the right to humane treatment, the right to know precisely where he is being held. i should point out that even article 77 of the goldstone commission report, which is critical of israel, recommends that ghilad shalit enjoy the rights guaranteed by the geneva convention. on the other hand, israel respects the rights of its prisoners.
the eu should make clear to the un human rights council in march its conviction that the international community will not ignore human rights abuses in the developing world or the backsliding in developed countries. the declaration by the un general assembly on the rights of persons belonging to national, ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities of 18 december 1992 applies to both developing and developed countries, as well as to eu member states. the first paragraph of the second article of the declaration states that persons belonging to national minorities may use their language in both the private and public spheres without any interference or discrimination. this article is currently in trouble in eu member states. the eu can only be credible if it finds a solution that sets an example for the rest of the world in dealing with the backlog of human rights violations by minorities in the union.
acting president of the council. - mr president, there has been a debate, i think a very plural one, not only on the goldstone report itself but also on the previous situation which triggered it. i think we can reiterate on behalf of the presidency that the goldstone report is a point of reference, as has been said by the council of the union, as has been said, on behalf of the commission, by mrs georgieva, whom i thank for her intervention; it is a serious report, it is a report which seems to be objective, it is a report which expresses the existence or possible existence of very serious violations of human rights and which speaks of violations of human rights coming from different parts of the conflict. and the european union cannot remain indifferent to what the goldstone report says. the european union cannot remain indifferent to a report which objectively, seriously, describes the possibility of very serious violations of human rights. we therefore believe that the proposal that emerges from this report - that there should be independent and credible investigations - is the most appropriate way of responding to this report, which is an important report and which should have an impact on all of us; it should put us in a position to react to it, those who, as happens in the european union and in this european parliament, believe in the existence of human rights, in their defence; it should therefore make us react to very serious violations of human rights such as those which have occurred in this case. the debate on this report is something that is going to take place, and we believe that this debate should be supported within the united nations. it will also be discussed in the human rights council. we pointed out that the international criminal court is also working on this and investigating it, and i believe that the european union must, as the presidency of the council will do, maintain a constructive and coordinated position in relation to the very serious facts mentioned in the goldstone report.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first clearly state that the commission has consistently and forcefully expressed its utmost concern for the humanitarian situation in gaza. my predecessor, louis michel, went to gaza immediately after operation cast lead. he eye-witnessed violations on both sides and he spoke up against those. we in the commission are very keen that two issues should always be high on our agenda. first: the necessity for full respect of international humanitarian law by all parties; second: the necessity to ensure that humanitarian relief efforts can actually reach the people in gaza. since the conflict in january last year, the eu has made it clear that we will closely follow investigations into alleged violations of international humanitarian law, and the commission has underlined and continues to stress the importance of accountability and countering impunity for violations of international law. in the context of the middle east peace process, respect for human rights and international humanitarian law is as important today as ever – and maybe even more important than ever. for the eu to be a credible player in the peace process, it is necessary to demonstrate that it applies the eu’s fundamental values in all contexts and that it complies with the international-law acquis consistently at any point and on any issue. let me again reiterate in support of the presidency that a common eu line on the goldstone issue would be a very important step in this direction.
in writing. the goldstone report - which addresses a highly controversial situation that stirs strong passions - is difficult to reach consensus with the december 2008 and january 2009 clashes between the israeli army and palestinian militants in the hamas-dominated gaza strip causing suffering on both sides. whatever the position of the parties on the goldstone report, i hope that it will not be used as a pretext to make talks impossible for a peaceful and permanent settlement of the palestinian problem. in fact, this is the priority in the region: the relaunch of peace talks, which involve, as before, both the european union and the united states, and the solutions that will be reached will guarantee the existence and continuity of the state of israel in the region, and the palestinians the guarantee that they will be able to live with dignity in their own, viable democratic and independent state. the european union must be prepared to take on greater responsibilities in this process, for the normalisation of israeli-palestinian relations. i think we have to remember what is most important in the goldstone report: nothing can justify the suffering of people who are defenseless and, to end it, dialogue is preferable to confrontation and the use of force.
in writing. the republic of belarus is one of the european states for which participation in the eastern partnership of the european union is an important step forward in the development of bilateral relations, as well as in the relations between belarus and each eu member state. considering this partnership as a positive instrument in bringing about change in the republic of belarus, the position of civil society in this country should also be taken into account in this context, due to the important role of civil society in the functioning of the rule of law. in particular, civil society maintains the transparency of the partnership mechanism, helping to strengthen cooperation between belarus and the eu. civil society should also be guaranteed to participate in all key processes of the partnership framework (platforms, committees, etc.) and public scrutiny of these processes. civil society in belarus certainly has the capacity to participate in shaping the public agenda, which will lead to social, economic and democratic progress in belarus, and therefore frequent meetings between civil society representatives and those of the government should be encouraged.
equality of opportunity between men and women is a fundamental principle of the european union, enshrined in community law. in 2009, women represented 24% of the members of national parliaments, 26% of the members of national governments and 33% of the leaders of european companies, as well as 18% of the professors at european public universities. i would like to mention that 81.3% of young women have completed at least secondary education and 59% of university graduates in the european union are women. the european union's strategy for growth and jobs has set a target of 60% female employment by 2010. the risk of poverty among women, however, is primarily due to the situation of single-parent families headed by women. i think it is important to ensure that women have equal opportunities for career development and planning, conditions for reconciling personal, professional and family life; and here i want to stress the importance of childcare facilities. we've set a goal that 30 percent of children under three years old can be enrolled, can be in child care services under three years old.
one of the areas of action defined by the beijing platform in 1995 was the fight against violence against women. fifteen years after that historic un conference, the record of efforts to improve the status of women worldwide is disappointing. many of the programmes adopted over the years remain woefully out of touch, such as the millennium development goals, which promoted gender equality. sadly, domestic violence, rape as a weapon of war, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, human trafficking, and sexual slavery remain the nightmare that destroys the lives of millions of women worldwide. i believe that without the european union's stronger involvement we cannot speak of success. we need a comprehensive strategy that addresses poverty, lack of education and information, impunity, armed conflict, human trafficking for the purpose of prostitution. i think it is important to remember that, before being a cause of harm, violence against women is the effect of a complex of factors whose root must be tackled more unitedly and more firmly.
in writing. the united nations has established the international day for the elimination of violence against women, which the entire planet celebrates every year on 25 november. this is a widespread phenomenon, with 45% of european women being victims of various forms of violence, and globally one in three women has been beaten, forced into sexual intercourse or otherwise abused. this manifestation includes not only domestic violence against women and girls, but also exploitation, sexual violence, trafficking in human beings, honour killings, dangerous traditional practices such as bride burning or early marriage, and other forms of violence against their bodies, minds and dignity. in most cases, the abuser is the spouse or intimate friend or someone known to the victim. i believe that violence against women is one of the most serious violations of human rights and is an even more serious phenomenon because it exists on every continent, in every country and culture, regardless of the level of economic development. the perpetrators of these acts must be severely punished, and in the case of large-scale crimes the international criminal court must play an important role and in close correlation with the decisions of national courts.
in writing. i believe that gender equality should be one of the central objectives of any democracy. although much has been done in the european union to achieve the objectives of the beijing platform for action, they have not yet been fully achieved. in europe, we still face strong stereotypes about women, with significant gender pay gaps, and progress towards attracting more women to decision-making positions is very slow. in general, however, equal opportunities unfortunately remains only a wish, especially in the case of the eastern european countries, new members of the eu. in order to achieve better results in the member states in achieving the objectives of the beijing platform for action, it is essential to have reliable and comparable data at both european and national level on the situation of women, as well as a regular review of progress in the critical areas identified by the platform. i am glad, however, that the spanish presidency has included gender equality issues in its list of priorities and has paid particular attention to women in agriculture, and i congratulate it on this initiative.
on 4 february 2010, the president of romania, traian basescu, announced the decision by which the supreme council of defense of the country approved the participation of romania in the american anti-missile system. the agreement is subject to parliament's approval. the president also said that the agreement is not directed against russia. i think romania is demonstrating its capacity as a strategic partner of the united states in the black sea area and becoming a net european security provider. in the context of the current severe international challenges, the romanian-american agreement will strengthen indivisibly the security system for the european allies. i am confident that the european union will welcome this major agreement.
last week i attended the meeting of the eu-moldova parliamentary cooperation committee, a meeting with very encouraging results in terms of bilateral relations and the republic of moldova's rapprochement with the european union. the pro-european government in chisinau has made visible progress in the few months since it took office, and i believe that this progress is a clear sign of its sincere desire to commit itself irreversibly to the european path. last week's talks showed the political will of the current moldovan government to push for reforms to build a strong democracy and a prosperous economy. i welcome the start of negotiations for a new association agreement in january this year and believe that the european parliament should be actively involved in this process and support the conclusion of such an agreement and visa liberalisation. the republic of moldova shares the values of the european union and therefore i believe that both the european commission and the european parliament must support this government through financial assistance which must be granted as soon as possible, but also through the competences of the european union in the various sectors targeted by the reforms, such as the judiciary or the economic field.
ladies and gentlemen, i believe the most important gift god has given to man is the dog. you know what madame roland, who was to be guillotined during the french revolution, said: "since i have known better men, i have come to love dogs", and lord byron wrote, "dogs have all the virtues of men, less their faults". i represent here several million animal lovers in my country, outraged by the cruelty to stray dogs that are being mercilessly killed. foreigners visiting romania are shocked by the sight of dead dogs on the roads, a barbaric spectacle that even children witness. these days, the prefect of the capital, bucharest, is calling for the amendment of a law amended by the parliament, calling for the abolition of community dogs. but dogs are guardian angels; and for the health of a city, it is a known fact that where there are dogs, there are no rats or snakes. i ask the european parliament to call on the romanian government to respect the universal declaration of animal rights proclaimed in paris in 1978. the slaughter of stray dogs in romania must end. whoever doesn't love animals doesn't love people either. what the hell, we're living in the third millennium after christ!
at the start of the year, the unemployment rate in the euro area stood at 10% and in the eu-27 at 9.6%. among young people, it is over 21 percent. in the european union, with the exception of the financial sector, there are some 20 million enterprises, 99% of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. two thirds of the total private sector workforce is employed in smes. i call on the commission and the member states to define a package of measures to support smes in overcoming the economic and financial crisis. this package of measures should also be addressed to those who intend to set up a small or medium-sized enterprise. measures may include, inter alia, the appropriate adaptation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and the seventh research framework programme, as well as the simplification of administrative criteria and procedures for smes' access to projects funded by the european union. last but not least, as in the case of farmers, i propose that government guarantees be granted for loans taken out by smes to overcome the crisis, obviously for a certain period of time and within a certain ceiling.
respect for the right to privacy has recently become a particularly topical issue in the context of the introduction of new information technologies. in addition to the benefits of these technologies in many areas, the issue of the intrusion into the privacy of citizens has also arisen and, by implication, the need to regulate access to personal data; i am referring to the fact that the citizen must be guaranteed the right to control the collection, storage, use and distribution of private data. the current data protection legislation is backward and no longer able to solve all the problems that have arisen. the numerous signals from public opinion clearly support the need for strict regulation of the right to privacy. the european union's efforts to create an appropriate legal database in this area are welcome, but in my view they are still insufficient to meet the new challenges. (applause) thank you very much.
due to the expiry of the gmp manufacturing practice standard, the national research and development institute for microbiology and immunology cantacuzino in bucharest was withdrawn from the manufacturing and marketing of injectable products, including vaccines, at the beginning of february. following the implementation of the corrective action plan established by the management of the cantacuzino institute together with the national medicines agency and approved by the ministry of health, it is expected that the cantacuzino institute will regain its authorisation to manufacture vaccines in the second half of april. let us not forget, however, that the suspension for a few months of the activity of an institute of national and european strategic importance, such as the cantacuzino institute, has a high potential degree of danger. i therefore believe it is important that the european institutions should be able to exercise more rigorous control, which will prevent such situations from arising at european level in the future.
mr president, the only problem we have is that it would be good to know in advance who will take the floor. it is 10 o’clock in the evening and we are staying for nothing if we do not receive a speaking slot. i think we should have a rule that we should know at least two hours in advance who will take the floor in the one-minute speeches.
rapporteur. − madam president, i fully appreciate your presence in the plenary this evening. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for our fruitful discussions and our work on this report. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is giving the european union more competence in the field of energy policy. i believe this is an area where, if member states work together, europe can ensure secure, cheaper and more efficient energy for its citizens. together we can minimise the impact of unpredictable events, such as the gas disruption europe experienced last winter. of course europe cannot interfere in gas flow outside its borders or solve such disputes, but what we can do is ensure that our infrastructure is able to cope with supply shortages or failures, and make the market more transparent and efficient. europe has set this priority very high on its agenda. last year we adopted a third energy package which aims to ensure a more competitive and efficient energy market. a regulation on security of gas supplies is currently on the table in parliament and tomorrow’s vote on the regulation on notification of investments in energy infrastructure will contribute to making the market more transparent and more predictable. in this context, i think it would be a pity to waste the opportunity this new instrument offers, by not applying the correct legal basis provided by the new article 194 of the lisbon treaty. it is a very important institutional, political and legal point. this regulation is not only a tool for collecting information; it can also give an overall picture of investments in energy infrastructure as a basis for policymaking. so, in the event that the council adopts this regulation on the wrong legal basis, i consider that parliament should pursue this matter further at the european court of justice, and let me assure you, it will. on the substance now; i have said this before to mr barroso and i will say it again to you, commissioner ortega, europe is standing at a turning point and our priority now should be more than ever to support our companies and create a positive environment for competitiveness. we therefore need strong policies and especially a stronger reliable energy policy. the aim in the end is to ensure secure and cheap energy for both our citizens and our companies. in this perceptive i should hope that gathering data will not become a purpose in itself. we have to make sure that this regulation will not create yet another bureaucratic burden on companies and that confidentiality of commercially sensitive information will be reinforced. on another issue, i can only regret that the ppe and s&d groups introduced an amendment requiring eu companies to provide data on investments in projects in third countries. i challenge anyone to find the legal basis in the treaties that would allow extra-territoriality in energy policy. furthermore, i believe we should first start proving that we know what is planned at european level before looking outside our borders. i have also noticed the temptation in this house to include everything in this regulation. i think that this is a mistake. for this instrument to be efficient we must focus on real consistent information and keep in mind avoiding too much bureaucracy and confidentiality issues for our companies and the commission. i have tried to achieve this balance by, on the one hand, giving the commission the opportunity of having an overview of possible future developments but also, on the other hand, ensuring that this picture is as accurate as possible. we also need some certainty about future investments to ensure proper and solid policymaking. i would also need to be reassured, commissioner ortega. i want to avoid a situation where the commission, having gathered the data, starts imposing investment plans and ends up telling companies not to invest here but there. however it should provide solutions and incentives for companies to make short-term non-profitable investments which may be needed to ensure security of supply, otherwise the loopholes will remain. i am stopping here. thank you for your time and i look forward to hearing your comments.
member of the commission. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; the gas crisis at the beginning of last year showed the importance of europe having an energy infrastructure that not only supports the functioning of the internal market but also allows solidarity between member states and the regions affected in the event of a crisis. it is therefore important for the commission to have an overview of the new investment projects planned or under construction or the old installations to be permanently decommissioned. we have therefore proposed the development and revision of an information tool which has its origins in the time of another crisis, the first oil price crisis. our proposal aims to extend the scope of the regulation, particularly in the areas of renewable energy and ccs. we welcome the proposals from the heart of parliament to include applications such as district heating networks or gas, coal and oil extraction capacities. we also want to take account of existing reporting obligations, insofar as the available information is useful in the context of the analysis to be carried out by the commission. (noise) what is it ?
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have raised the question of how the commission intends to evaluate the information it receives from the member states under this regulation. our analysis will first compare the foreseeable development of the infrastructure with the expected development of demand. we will see whether the new capacity expected corresponds to future demand forecasts or whether gaps are to be expected. it is essential that, in contrast to the current regulation, an institutional dialogue on these issues be introduced. the commission therefore proposes, firstly, to publish a report every two years on the structural development of energy infrastructure. this should help to improve transparency for all market participants. secondly, we want to have a political discussion with parliament and the member states to draw conclusions. i would like to emphasize the latter. the regulation itself is an instrument for collecting and gathering information to make visible any need for action. the way in which these are addressed will be the subject of specific energy policy initiatives. i come now to the point which is of particular concern to you and to the house as a whole, madam president: the new article 194 of the treaty of lisbon and its application. this article is both an opportunity and an obligation for all of us - parliament, council and commission - to shape the eu's energy policy in close cooperation, that is, above all with the european parliament. as the new commissioner for energy, i therefore want to involve this house as early and as fully as possible in all future policy measures. the legal act to which today's debate refers, however, concerns only the collection and analysis of information in the energy sector and is therefore based, in the commission's view, on articles 337 and 187 euratom. the content of the regulation corresponds to these two articles of primary law and, in accordance with the case-law, the choice of the legal basis for secondary law must be based on measurable criteria of substance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask for your understanding.
on behalf of the epp group. commissioner, you have tried to explain why we do not work in co-decision. i share the view of my colleague, mrs valean, the rapporteur of this report, that it would have been good if this regulation had been discussed in the codecision procedure. the new regulation is a very important legislative instrument for the european union's energy market. this analysis should complement national and regional strategies and contribute to strengthening energy security by identifying potential gaps and risks in infrastructure and investment, with a view to ensuring a balance between energy demand and supply. i think the commission's proposal includes some ambiguities which i think have been resolved by the amendments tabled, such as the issue of the publication of energy data sent by the member states, this data must be aggregated at national and regional level. this avoids the disclosure of commercially sensitive information. another problem is to clarify what is meant by a 'specific body', that is a body responsible for preparing and adopting multiannual plans for the development and investment of energy infrastructure at community level, the problem of avoiding duplication of the collection of these data and the problem of determining when a particular project must be reported, that is after the authorities have received the application for a building permit. another particularly important aspect is the issue of monitoring in third countries of european investments that have an impact on the european energy market. i believe that investments in third countries, both governmental and those made by national companies, which have a significant effect on the energy market, should be reported under this regulation.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her work. the lisbon treaty strengthens the european union's powers in the field of energy policy. the union's energy security and solidarity between member states in energy crises are essential for the union's energy policy. this regulation establishes a community framework for the notification to the commission of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the fields of oil, gas, electricity, biofuels and projects for the geological storage of carbon emitted in the energy sector. this will enable the commission to come up with proposals for better use of existing capacities and for identifying solutions in energy crisis situations. the regulation should not significantly burden the administrative burden on energy companies. however, i believe that this regulation should also apply to european companies investing in energy infrastructure projects in third countries and which are directly linked to or have a significant impact on the energy networks of one or more member states. that's why i'm hoping that amendment 74 will be passed by a majority tomorrow.
i congratulate mrs. valean on her report. i would like to stress a few points about the importance of investing in infrastructure: the continuous development of energy infrastructure is the only way to cope with a changing society. the development of existing networks and investment in new types of networks adapted to innovative energy resources is a key point to facilitate access to new energy for both the population and industry. regional energy cooperation is currently de facto in place, but needs to be strengthened by clear rules. solidarity between member states must be transformed from a notion into a reality. increasing investment in it systems for monitoring and reporting fuel stocks during a crisis is also important. in conclusion, i would like to say that investments, ict solutions in the energy sector are the key to developing an energy efficient, low carbon economy.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for your valuable suggestions for improvement. the commission will endeavour to ensure that a large number of your proposals are taken into account by the member states in the final version of the regulation. the commission is aware of the confidential nature of information on planned projects. we therefore agree with the house's proposals to publish only data which have been previously aggregated at member state level. in addition, the data should be pooled at european level so that no conclusions can be drawn about individual companies and their corporate policies. this is important in cases where there is only one undertaking active in the energy sector at national level. as mentioned earlier, we also welcome the extension of the scope to oil, gas and coal production capacities. i would like to point out that the member states are less favourable to this proposal, but they are looking forward to a review of the use of this capacity within five years. regardless of our differences in legal views on the treaty basis for the regulation, i can assure you that the commission is seeking a broad debate on infrastructure. the new infrastructure and solidarity instrument to be developed, the follow-up instrument to the eu financial contribution to the trans-european energy networks, will provide an opportunity for this, as will the commission's progress reports on the implementation of the recovery programme for energy projects.
rapporteur. − madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner and colleagues for their interesting input in the debate. just a few words in conclusion – or as my conclusion at least. first of all i would like to stress again that policies should certainly abstain from interfering with the market. let us not forget that europe is a market economy and policies are only here to correct the market weaknesses. secondly, my opinion remains firmly that we should not use this regulation to verify the correct application of other regulations or include exhaustive information; it is not an exercise in statistics. we must definitely keep the information gathered to a certain degree of relevance, otherwise it will lose its purpose under a massive amount of data. and this regulation is not about devising a policy on renewables or gas. finally, i would like to say to my colleague lena ek that i only hope the aggregated data that we have as a result of this regulation will help us to become smarter in energy issues and be in our general interest.
in writing. the principle of solidarity must be at the heart of the european union's energy policy. working together, member states can ensure a safer, cheaper and more efficient supply of energy resources to citizens and businesses. it is very important that the european union has an energy infrastructure that allows member states to work together to reduce problems that arise during energy crises. this regulation will provide the european commission with information on energy structures so that it can have an overview. data on both oil and gas infrastructure and renewable energy are included. after collecting this information, the shortcomings of the european energy system can be identified and then measures can be proposed to correct them. measures taken at european level must complement national and regional strategies. i think it's very important that we ensure the confidentiality of the business information we collect. it is also important to monitor those european investments in third countries that have a major impact on the eu energy market.
in writing. in the context of the new energy policy aimed at securing supply, mitigating climate change and ensuring competitiveness, investment in energy infrastructure plays a key role. new policy requirements, such as fuel mix targets, will lead to changes in member states' policies so that they benefit from new and modernised energy infrastructure. the commission proposal aims to review the current system for informing about investment projects in the energy sector: it aims to collect adequate information on planned investments, to enable the commission to monitor the infrastructure situation and anticipate possible problems. as current eu legislation already imposes reporting and notification obligations related to investments and infrastructure, it is necessary to ensure that the use of this information is better coordinated, avoiding duplication of reporting obligations, confidentiality and citizens' access to information. although the proposal is rather administrative in nature, it gives an idea of the nature and expected qualities of future investments. it is therefore important to put a stronger focus on the environmental impact of projects in order to provide additional guarantees and incentives for the construction and decommissioning of energy infrastructure in a sustainable manner and with appropriate environmental protection. congratulations to the reporter!
legislative excellence is a priority for parliament and there is a need to provide members, committees and political groups with the appropriate means to achieve it. the new administrative expenditure resulting from the implementation of the provisions of the lisbon treaty is now included in parliament's budget. the report also stresses the importance of the parliament's extended legislative role and the consequent need for additional financial means to achieve this. concrete action is needed to ensure budgetary stability by developing a zero-based budgetary policy and long-term planning to meet parliament's requirements for real estate policy. i believe that the overall reference for parliament's budget should continue to be the initial programming in the multiannual financial framework, in order to ensure the protection of its interests and, at the same time, to maintain budgetary discipline. at the same time, i believe that the traditional 20% limit should be maintained and i welcome the fact that a consensus has been reached not to exceed this limit in this case. i also support the idea that actions should be taken to ensure budgetary sustainability in the coming years, while reaffirming the importance of developing a budgetary policy that guarantees greater rigour. at the same time, i believe that there is a need for transparency and therefore for clear information on the overall amount of fixed expenditure in the european parliament's budget.
, in writing. this budgetary correction responds to a real need. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's powers have increased substantially in many areas. this increase has as a direct consequence a much larger volume of work and the quality of which must be of the highest legislative standard. it is not a question of asking for money for ourselves, as we have been attacked in the press; rather, we must give the european parliament the means to meet the expectations of european citizens in this forum.
rail transport is generally safer, faster and less polluting than road transport. however, in 2007, approximately 2600 people were victims of rail accidents, and in the last year there have been several rail accidents involving passenger and freight trains. the recent train accident in belgium, which left 20 dead and over 120 injured, brings the importance of railway safety to our attention in a brutal way. unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis has exacerbated the financial difficulties faced by both railway infrastructure managers and operators. it is worrying that the lack of skilled staff and financial resources for the implementation of ertms is among the possible causes of the accident, although thousands of employees in the railway system are losing their jobs. calls on the member states and the commission to take the necessary measures to: 1. rehabilitate existing railway infrastructure and rolling stock in order to ensure efficient and safe rail transport; 2. give priority to the investments needed for railway safety and security; and3. develop new railway infrastructure and implement ertms.
in writing. in the light of the tragic accident in brussels, the issue is again raised that member states have not yet fully harmonised their railway safety systems, although directive 2004/49/ec clearly sets common standards for safety indicators and fully covers the overall safety requirements, including in infrastructure and traffic management. the major problem is in fact a strictly economic one: the life/use life of railway infrastructure and rolling stock, including signalling systems, is very long. under these circumstances, it would be desirable for member states to overcome this economic issue, despite the crisis, and to consider accelerating the implementation of interoperable systems and investing more in railway infrastructure and signalling systems, both on-board and on-board. the savings made by delaying the renewal and modernisation of rolling stock and railway infrastructure can, unfortunately, lead to tragic accidents in which, in addition to the huge economic and financial losses, there has been loss of human life, which is unacceptable. i extend my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims and hope that this kind of tragedy will never happen again.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to table the following amendment: 'calls on the ukrainian authorities, noting that ukraine has ratified the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages, to make greater efforts to reach out to the country's minority communities by involving them more closely in the political development of the country and by respecting the right of minorities to education in their own language;'. the pattern is very simple. it is in a post-electoral context that it should be recalled that the union's external policy is based on respect for human rights, including those of minorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it brings some improvements to the current system, which will allow better reporting of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the community. the need to optimise the reporting system comes from the changing energy context, as energy interdependence between countries has increased, we have an internal market, so it has become necessary to have tools at european level to make decisions that affect the energy sector. i support the change of the legal basis proposed by the commission, so that the regulation is based on article 194 of the treaty of lisbon, in order to strengthen the role that the union institutions can play in the field of energy policy, in particular in the functioning of the energy market, the security of resources, the promotion of energy efficiency and the development of new forms of renewable energy, and in the interconnection of energy networks.
in writing. − a coherent energy policy at european level cannot exist in the absence of accurate and complete reporting by the 27 member states on energy investments made in their respective territories. it is important, however, that the eu executive takes account of the need to ensure the confidentiality of information provided by national entities, as we are dealing with sensitive information from a very important market. europe's energy security is an important issue but the commission must be aware that information received from individual countries cannot be made public, especially as it is purely commercial. the biennial reporting of energy investment projects will enable the european commission to prepare a periodic analysis to anticipate the further development of the european union's energy system and thus to intervene in time if any gaps or problems arise. a mechanism needs to be found to comply with the reporting requirements of the european commission, as the provisions of the previous regulation on informing the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure within the european community have not been complied with by all member states.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation aims to ensure that the commission is kept informed correctly and regularly about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure, so that it can fulfil its tasks, in particular those related to its contribution to european energy policy. the repealed regulation is considered obsolete because it does not reflect the important changes that have taken place since 1996 in the energy field (the enlargement of the european union and issues related to security of energy supply, renewable energy sources, climate change policy, the new eu role in the energy field in the context of the lisbon treaty). i voted for this report because there is a need to update european legislation in all areas, and especially in energy.
in writing. − the newly installed president of ukraine is sending an important signal by choosing brussels as the destination for his first foreign visit. ukraine is a country with european aspirations and the fact that president yanukovych is coming to the eu capital for meetings with the commission leadership shows that kiev's face is turned to the west. ukraine's new president faces a major challenge as the international monetary fund suspends its stand-by agreement with kiev over many unfulfilled or broken commitments. it is important that president victor yanukovych does not forget what he promised on the day he took office. ukraine needs, as the new leader in kiev has pointed out, internal stability, fighting corruption and building an economy on sound foundations. ukraine needs to regain the trust of the business community and the international community to overcome the economic recession, which has been exacerbated by an unstable political climate. the end of the election campaign and the assumption of office by president ianucovici must mean the end of populist practices of artificially increasing the income of the population on unsustainable economic bases. president yanukovych's inaugural speech gives the international community hope that things can return to normal in ukraine. it remains for the next period to prove this by deeds.
in writing. − by voting today on the resolution on the situation in ukraine, we welcomed the democratic conduct of the presidential elections and the installation of the new president, who we expected to pursue a policy of openness and cooperation towards us. we stressed the importance of concluding additional agreements in the energy field to guarantee the security of energy supply. i also appreciated the need to continue the discussions on the establishment of a favourable visa system. ukraine has been invited, through the message sent today, to continue to work with us for its definitive commitment to the democratic path. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in ukraine, and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the epp group's motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu must help ukraine to implement democratic reforms and european values, to guarantee human rights and the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. the new president of ukraine won the election with a programme to guarantee the rights of minorities, and the eu must support the effective and sustainable implementation of this programme. to this end, it is necessary to adopt and apply the law implementing the charter for regional or minority languages. previous measures to drastically restrict the teaching of minority mother tongues in schools must be repealed. the representation of minorities in local, district, regional and central institutions of ukraine should be improved. the rights of all minorities: russian, polish, tatar, bulgarian, greek, romanian, hungarian, jewish, roma must be guaranteed to european standards. no minority should be neglected. i would like to draw attention to the need to conserve and restore the cultural and historical heritage of the chernobyl region, which belongs to the jewish, german-austrian, polish, romanian, russian and ukrainian cultural heritage. i believe that the preservation of this valuable european multicultural and multi-confessional heritage, including the cemeteries, monuments, buildings and churches of northern bukovina, must be a priority objective for eu-ukraine cooperation.
in writing. − the european union has campaigned for the establishment of the united nations human rights council (unhrc) and has committed itself, together with its member states, to playing an active and visible role in supporting an effective body to address contemporary human rights challenges. the new institutional structure created by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon provides the opportunity to increase the coherence, visibility and credibility of the union's actions in the unhrc. it is therefore important that at the thirteenth session of the unhrc, the eu has a consolidated common position on all issues to be addressed. the eu must have effective influence within the wider un system and remain committed to achieving a common position, increase its flexibility on less important issues to be able to react more quickly and effectively in negotiations on fundamental issues and, in particular, actively engage in the creation of specialised unhrc mechanisms to respond quickly and effectively to human rights crises in iran, afghanistan, iraq, yemen.
in writing. − i would like to stress that respect for international human rights and humanitarian law by all parties and in all circumstances remains an essential condition for the achievement of a just and lasting peace throughout the world. i believe that at european union level, concerted action by both the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the member states, advocating a strong common position, would ensure that those guilty of breaching international human rights and international humanitarian law are held accountable.
in writing. − equality between women and men is a fundamental right, a common value of the european union and a necessary condition for achieving the union's objectives of economic growth, employment and social cohesion. although significant progress has been made towards achieving the objectives of the beijing platform for action adopted in 1995, gender inequality and stereotypes persist. i believe that the revision of the lisbon strategy must give greater attention to gender equality, set new targets and strengthen links with the beijing platform for action so that member states can achieve concrete results through specific policies. therefore, there is a need to better promote the exchange of experience and good practices between member states in all areas covered by the beijing platform for action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution beijing +15 - un platform for action on gender equality. fifteen years after the adoption of the beijing declaration and platform for action, the european parliament is today debating global developments on gender equality. equality of opportunity between men and women is one of the fundamental values of the european union - article 2 of the treaty on european union highlights a number of values common to the member states: pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and gender equality. even though there have been many advances in certain fields and industries, inequalities still persist. in this respect, the european union must continue to make efforts to resolve these problems. equality must be promoted in all areas. at eu level, when developing strategies on the economic crisis and the impact of climate change, the european commission must also take into account the impact on women. the resolution encourages the development of gender equality strategies and tools developed by the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of paragraph 9 of the resolution on the beijing +15 un platform for action for gender equality, upholding women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights. sexual and reproductive rights are based on universally recognised rights to bodily integrity, non-discrimination, and the highest attainable standard of health. these rights are enshrined in international law (including article 12 of the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights where states parties recognise ‘the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health’ and article 12 of the convention for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women on eliminating ‘discrimination against women in the field of health care in order to ensure, on a basis of equality of men and women, access to health care services, including those related to family planning’). consensus documents (such as the 1994 cairo programme of action and 1995 beijing platform for action) also illustrated governments’ commitment to (women’s) sexual and reproductive rights. many in my electorate in romania share this perspective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion of resolution because it is compulsory to implement gender equality in all fields. regarding romania, these fifteen years progress has been made only in some of the areas identified in the beijing platform for action. the presence of women in romanian politics on the level of decision making after the 2009 election is around 11% in the parliament, and only one woman was appointed in the government. male violence against women, human trafficking and women representation in decision-making bodies are priorities we should strongly address. we can address all this only if women will decide for women! not including women in all social and political executive bodies would be wasting 50% of intellectual capacity as well as failing in representing truly the interest of all citizens.
in writing. - i voted with confidence on this budgetary correction. it is not a question of asking for money for ourselves, as we have been attacked in the press, but of giving the european parliament the means to meet the expectations of european citizens in this forum. i know that the economic times are difficult, but also that in many states the budgetary constraints are very high. this budget is not a luxury one either and savings have been made and will be made.
in writing. − the launch of a new strategy to tackle fisheries problems in the european union is welcome. overfishing, illegal fishing, pollution, climate change, all of these are factors that threaten marine ecosystems. therefore, the pursuit of quality aquaculture in europe will bring economic benefits and at the same time environmental benefits. it is essential to maintain the right balance between economic growth, the fishing tradition of some regional communities and best fishing practices, and, most importantly, to understand that sustainable and economically efficient aquaculture in the long term depends first and foremost on how environmentally friendly we are.
in writing. − a key element in the reform of fisheries policy is the co-interest of producer organisations in respecting the principles promoted by the european community. the european union cannot wait for the natural, economically driven downsizing of europe's fishing fleets. their overcapacity, almost eight years after the world summit on sustainable development, and the continuing decline in fish stocks are further reasons for a substantial reform of the common fisheries policy. but it must not forget that there are entire communities in the coastal regions of the european union whose existence revolves around fishing. as the fisheries reform report also states, this activity is part of the cultural heritage and traditions that no one wants lost. a rethinking of the common fisheries policy is in the interest of each member state so that the main objective of the 2012 summit to achieve the maximum sustainable yield of fish stocks by 2015 can be achieved and the european community is no longer obliged to import half of its fish needs from other markets.
in writing. − i believe that long-term management and recovery plans for all fisheries and geographical fishing areas within the european union need to be drawn up. the first thing to do is to take account of the enormous differences in european fishing, to give more responsibility to fishing areas and to improve the traditional quota system. europe needs a strong, common approach to fisheries management, including both the continental and market dimension of the sector and the catch and aquaculture sector, in line with the new integrated maritime policy of the european union and its interest in sustainable growth in coastal regions.
in writing. − the commission’s green paper on this issue was a damning indictment and an honest recognition that the common fisheries policy has not worked. on the contrary, it has contributed to a variety of problems which continue to have economic, social and environmental impacts. only two weeks ago, this house voted in favour of suspending international trade in bluefin tuna because of the critically low stocks – a situation which is yet another sign that our current levels of fishing are unsustainable and have serious consequences for biodiversity and the future of the fishing sector. we must recognise that a new approach is needed. a decentralised policy with more funding will allow different regions to adapt and respond to their own circumstances – something that the previous ‘top-down’ policy prevented. this should lead to better management of stocks and have a positive effect on the marine environment. i fully support the commission’s commitment to whole-scale and fundamental reform, which has been rightly backed by the committee on fisheries. it is vital that we act to ensure that the european union implements a truly sustainable fishing policy in order to protect stocks, the environment, and european jobs in the long term.
on 8 february 2010, romania accepted the invitation by the president of the united states to participate in the development of the american missile defense system. it's a testament to the trust placed in my country, considering, among other things, the professionalism shown by the romanian army in afghanistan and iraq. three batteries of eight missiles each will be placed on the territory of romania. the timetable agreed with the us side is for the operation of this defence system from 2015. i believe that the subject of missile defence should be topical and on the agenda of the european parliament, because we need to be informed about the risk of proliferation of ballistic programmes. i want to make it clear that the new system is not directed against russia. in fact, some of the observations and demands of moscow were taken into account in the redefinition of the new architecture of the american system. bilateral negotiations will be initiated in the near future to conclude the necessary agreements, which will then have to be ratified by the romanian parliament. thank you, sir.
although the european union solidarity fund is generally functioning well, experience gained during the first years of implementation shows that there are important limitations and weaknesses in the functioning of the fund. these are related to the lack of speed with which fund funding is made available, the degree of transparency of the criteria for mobilising the fund in the event of regional disasters and the limitations to natural disasters. i would remind you that romania was financially supported by the european union for projects in the flood-stricken areas, but the release of the fund was delayed compared to the time when it would have been most effective. to this end, i believe that the possibility of providing assistance, in the form of an advance payment system, based on the initial estimate of direct damage, to a country affected by a disaster, upon its request, would be a facility that would be greatly appreciated by the affected areas immediately after a disaster has occurred. thank you, sir.
the slovak state law has been the subject of a number of criticisms in recent times. i would now like to draw your attention to the opinion of the legal service of the european commission. according to the slovak republic, the law and the implementing provisions in their current form are incompatible with fundamental rights and relevant council of europe documents, as well as with the slovak law on the protection of minorities. the opinion lacks rationality and proportionality as regards the language requirements. it considers that the law also threatens the free movement of labour and thus the functioning of the single internal market within the union, one of the greatest achievements of european integration. the legal service also finds the amended language law to be contrary to the audiovisual services directive and article 56 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which concerns the freedom to provide services. the section on healthcare institutions, the report argues, may lead to discrimination in practice and also states that the legislation protects the interests of the state rather than the rights of the individual in relation to fundamental rights. i call on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that community law is fully applied.
i'm going to talk about women's participation in the labor market. eurostat data show a welcome trend - if in the 1970s women accounted for less than 30% of the european labour market, by 2008 they had reached 43%, and the global crisis had pushed them to around 50%. romania is part of this trend, as a result of the economic crisis that has hit predominantly male sectors of activity. however, there is wage discrimination between women and men in the labour market and it is therefore important that the legislative package envisaged by the commission includes targets for the elimination of these gender pay gaps for a higher participation of women in the labour market and that this legislative package should be part of the union's 2020 strategy.
mr president, you are staying so much in line that i think that, for these one-minute speeches, at least today on international women’s day, parliament should have made a gesture of generosity to women. aş vrea să aduc, azi, în atenţie câteva cazuri de discriminare a românilor în europa care, din păcate, se tot înmulţesc în ultima perioadă. chiar zilele trecute purtătorul de cuvânt al poliţiei din copenhaga făcea declaraţii cu caracter rasist şi xenofob la adresa românilor, în timp ce presa daneză eticheta o întreagă naţiune pentru infracţiunea comisă, se pare, de un emigrant român. la începutul acestui an, o fetiţă româncă de 13 ani din italia s-a sinucis, lăsând în urmă o mărturie cutremurătoare legată de discriminarea la care era supusă de către colegii de şcoală. aţi putut vedea şi dumneavoastră recent, în trenurile companiei franceze de căi ferate, afişe care solicitau clienţilor să semnaleze toate faptele românilor organismului de securitate naţională din cadrul sncf franceze. cred că sunteţi de acord cu mine că orice om care încalcă legea trebuie să plătească, dar aceste etichete la adresa unei întregi naţiuni sunt inacceptabile, iar cazurile pe care le-am relatat aici ilustrează deteriorarea atmosferei de convieţuire interetnică în ţări cu tradiţie democratică, manifestări care sunt incompatibile cu principiile ce stau la temelia uniunii europene şi alterează grav spiritul comunitar european, trădând existenţa unei regretabile cortine de fier între cetăţenii uniunii.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let us recall that free movement has been one of the fundamental pillars of the single european market, which aims to achieve increased competition and larger economies of scale and confers on the eu its main power of attraction. over time, the ability of people to move freely within the eu has become not only a basic component of the internal market but a fundamental right. by removing the barriers created by different national provisions and regulations, european citizens, as well as businesses, can thrive. likewise, the possibility for eu citizens to carry their pets with them, without being subjected to specific national regulations and standards, is important, as it can significantly reduce their travel efforts and costs. i am pleased that the commission proposal points in that direction. i welcome the general-regime passport, which will harmonise the animal health measures and controls that will facilitate the free movement of pet animals. at the same time, i agree that we need to guarantee a high level of protection for human and animal health. this transitional regime will allow more time for the right infrastructure and staff to be in place. so, under this argument, parliament will certainly vote tomorrow to prolong the transitional regime for some member states until the end of 2011, as these countries allegedly need to take specific health risks into account. however, this is not the first time that some member states have been allowed to apply more stringent health requirements than others. initially, the transitional period lasted until july 2008. then the transitional period was extended to 2010. now we have agreed to a new prolongation. thus, while i have some sympathy for the fears of the member states who consider that their pet population is more prone to certain diseases, and i understand that the proposed prolongation would be simultaneously completed with eu-funded vaccination programmes to eliminate sylvatic rabies in some member states, i believe that this should be the last extension of the special treatment enjoyed by these countries. we all know that asymmetrical measures and opt-outs will not bring the full benefits of the internal market in this area. so let us all agree that this transitional regime needs to be eliminated and that a level playing field has to be ensured as soon as possible. interestingly enough, the more contentious issue in this report has not been the content that has sparked heated debate among us on how to apply the new lisbon treaty provisions regarding the comitology procedure. this is the first codecision file where these provisions are to be put into practice. given parliament’s extended powers under the new treaty, it was crucial for us that this particular regulation did not set a precedent for future decisions. in this regard i welcome the written statement which was agreed between parliament and the council during the trialogue, stating that this file should not be treated as a precedent.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and all those who made this compromise possible. i am pleased that the report allows member states to continue protective measures against the spread of rabies but also that it will lead to the free and safe movement of pet animals in the european area after 2011. i think that a good compromise has been reached, which provides for an effective response if member states justify their concerns about the spread of diseases and provides a guarantee that when the delegated power is used, the commission will consult a range of experts - commission experts, member states' experts, experts from non-governmental organisations or experts from parliaments. in a broader context, we have received written assurances that this report will not set a precedent for the future use of the delegated powers. in this way, parliament's concerns about setting a precedent for the new comitology procedure under the lisbon treaty will be taken into account.
the package travel directive covers transport, accommodation and other related services provided by package travel and sets out the rights of consumers and the responsibilities of distributors and suppliers of package travel services. the 1990 directive does not take account of new developments such as the purchase of package holidays and payments made via the internet. the increase in internet use and the emergence of low-cost operators has led 23% of european tourists and 20% of european households to purchase their package holidays personally via dedicated websites. the directive should therefore be revised to include dynamic package travel providers. the consumer must be fully informed of his rights and how they are guaranteed by each of the offers available, both for the package as a whole and for each component. i also think it is important that websites offering tourism services are certified. this will ensure that the identity of the tourist service provider is known and, consequently, that there is a clear assumption of responsibility for the information and services provided. the study published in january 2009 by the commission on package holidays organised at the request of the customer, the so-called 'dynamic packages', shows that the share of packages purchased by electronic means increased by 12% in 2009, although their value represents only 25% of the total value of the tourist services sold. 66% of online purchases are direct purchases via the websites of airlines, travel agencies or specialised websites that present last-minute travel deals. tourists prefer dynamic packages because they offer more flexibility, lower prices compared to traditional packages, better quality of service or because they cannot find traditional packages that meet their requirements. furthermore, payment for purchased dynamic bundles can only be made by electronic means of payment. however, about 70% of complaints received last year by the european consumer centres network were related to travel services and were due to incorrect and incomplete pre- and in-trip information, substandard services, flight cancellations or delays and even non-delivery of services purchased. so i think it is important and timely that this directive be revised. thank you, sir.
i don't think that the introduction of a financial transaction tax is helping anything. it doesn't help to get out of the financial crisis, it doesn't help to prevent another crisis, and it doesn't help to stabilize financial markets. this would only increase the cost of capital and credit and would be a brake on investment. before introducing a new tax, the european commission must carefully consider the advantages and disadvantages of the tax. if a decision is taken to introduce a financial transaction tax, the competitiveness of the european economy at world level may be affected. double taxation and obstacles to the free movement of capital must also be avoided. the costs of such a tax should not be borne by the citizens. for countries where speculative capital accumulations take place, leading to the creation of short-term external debt, it would be appropriate to consider the introduction of such a tax. it could prevent the accumulation of speculative capital. sweden introduced in 2009 an annual stability levy on banks and credit institutions of 0,036% of total certain liabilities. however, the implementation of such a tax is not justified in romania. in the context of the negotiations between the romanian government, the imf and the european commission, legislative amendments were agreed on the special administration procedure, which would allow the bnr to intervene quickly and efficiently in the case of a credit institution in difficulty. in this context, i would like to ask the european commission what mechanisms or formulas are envisaged to protect countries against the accumulation of speculative capital and whether it is also considering other measures to regulate and supervise the financial system. thank you, sir.
i would like to inform you that my country, romania, is making important steps in terms of sepa implementation and migration. in october 2009, directive 64/2007/ec on payment services in the market was transposed into romanian law. as early as 2007, the romanian banking association, a member of the european payments council, assumed the role of supporting organisation for joining sepa schemes. thus, the migration to sepa credit transfer will be completed by the date of adoption of the euro, whereas so far only five banks plan to join sepa direct debit in the next three years. public administration plays a key role in the sepa migration. public institutions, together with utilities, telecommunications and insurance services, can achieve the critical mass needed to accelerate the sepa migration process. the romanian ministry of public finance announced that it would join the sepa schemes once the euro was adopted. thank you, sir.
the reporter. − i would like to thank first of all those with whom i had the opportunity to work on the solvit report, the imco secretariat, all the shadow rapporteurs, and the other colleagues who have shown their interest in this dossier and who have made an important contribution to the final result. solvit is a network that provides informal solutions to problems that may arise from the improper implementation of internal market legislation. it is a very useful innovation for european consumers and businesses in the european union to reap the benefits of european legislation. we often have problems with the implementation of european internal market legislation, and solvit seems to me a viable alternative to the judicial path, as the courts are already overwhelmed with all kinds of different cases. we cannot ignore the fact that solvit is facing a steadily increasing number of cases and that in this respect it is, in some ways, a victim of its own success. in order for solvit to provide quality assistance to citizens and businesses in the european union, it is necessary to supplement the solvit centres that do not have the necessary staff. supplementation must be done in a rational and controlled way, taking into account the population of the country and the previous number of cases the center has dealt with in the past. this analysis must be done to supplement staff, exclusively where it is really needed. of course, adding solvit staff comes with costs. the report calls on member states to use all available means to finance the additional staff, including alternative financing arrangements. another focus of this report is the promotion of the solvit network, which i personally - and i think you all agree with me - consider to be of major importance. by using solvit, smes can save significant amounts of money to invest in other growth-generating areas that are more useful for their development than the legal assistance they would need to solve problems, and for individual consumers, solvit gives them the advantage of avoiding long and costly legal proceedings. however, to benefit from solvit, citizens and businesses must first know how effective the network is. that is why i think we should have an active involvement, both of the national authorities and of the european commission and of the members of this parliament, in promoting solvit. the means are many: from the media to information campaigns organised by the member states, to the creation of a single solvit portal. public services responsible for implementing european legislation in the field of the internal market could also appoint a solvit communication officer, which would again increase the efficiency of the network and help to promote it. as meps, we can take the initiative to promote solvit ourselves and help raise awareness among our colleagues at national parliamentary level. the exchange of good practice between member states in promoting solvit and solving problems in the operation of the network is another element that this report strongly encourages. this way, good ideas can be disseminated and applied at european level to the benefit of all. finally, we cannot ignore the fact that sometimes solvit is faced with numerous cases that are outside its competence or that are particularly complex, requiring solutions by other means. petitions to the european parliament's committee on petitions can be a solution for those cases that are too complex to be solved at solvit level. one of the proposals in this report is therefore that the solvit portal should link to the website of the european parliament's committee on petitions and to the specialised committees of the national parliaments. these are just some of the ideas on which the solvit report is based. i believe that these proposals have the potential to improve the functioning of the network, with a view to providing quality assistance to consumers and businesses. solvit has enormous potential, but we need to continuously analyse its performance to maximise its potential.
it is a fundamental right of european citizens in the single market that when they want to buy a product or service, regardless of which member state they are in, they should benefit from the same prices or fees and, where differences exist, be able to explain them. i think we need to look more at the problems in banking and financial services, because today in the single market there are big differences in the fees charged in these services. if you are in romania, for example, and you want to use a banking service provided by banks the same banks operating in romania, france, italy and austria , in romania you pay more and much higher fees. such a situation is not right and i believe that the hope of the citizens, not only in romania but also in other member states, that the european institutions will play a more active role in clarifying these differences is justified. again, this is about commissions, not bank interest. thank you, sir.
the reporter. − i thank commissioner barnier and his colleagues for their positive comments on my first report and on the solvit network itself. i believe that solvit is a practical solution for consumers and therefore i believe that it should be improved and promoted by us and by the member states, so that as many european citizens as possible know about solvit and can defend their rights by using solvit assistance. i think that the result we have achieved, both in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and in the committee on petitions, is satisfactory. solvit is already a well-functioning network, but we need solutions to some of the difficulties faced by both solvit users and solvit staff. the report contains some of these solutions, but others have been discussed in this debate. in addition to the need for more staff in some solvit centres, for solvit to be effective, staff must be suitably qualified and trained in the internal market rules. it is equally important that solvit staff can benefit from legal assistance, both from civil servants and from the european commission, given the complexity of the cases that come to solvit's attention. sometimes the european commission responds late to legal assistance requests from solvit staff, which leads to some delays in the entire case resolution process. i thank commissioner barnier for his commitment to the european parliament to make the existence of the website http://www.solvit.eu possible as soon as possible.' i strongly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this report is an important step towards improving the functioning of solvit and i therefore ask all the groups to vote in favour of this report. thank you, sir.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proper functioning of the internal market must remain a priority for the european parliament and services such as solvit are essential to ensuring it. the report highlights this and draws attention to the problems facing the service. while we all know that aspects such as communication and media coverage of the solvit service are extremely important, we nevertheless find that these remain some of the recurring problems that the service has faced since its early years. member states and the european commission must ensure that european citizens, businesses and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which need support to benefit fully from the internal market, have access to information and quick-resolution tools. moreover, solvit centres need additional resources, and i am referring to qualified staff and by implication ongoing training for them. the member states must understand the importance of these centres, which are so necessary for the proper implementation of the internal market rules. i believe that the benefits that this service can offer, both to citizens and to the business community, are far from being fully exploited.
member of the commission. − mr president, two questions were raised, not particularly related to this issue, but i would like to take the opportunity to briefly touch upon them anyway. mr busuttil raised the issue of libya. i can assure him that it is a very complicated issue, but we are involved actively in dialogue with libya, with switzerland, with the member states, in order to find a solution to this very complicated problem before it escalates even further. so i hope to be able to come back to you soon on developments on this. to ms fajon, i want to tell you that, of course the situation of albania and bosnia and herzegovina is another track and we are right now finalising a mission there to evaluate how these two countries are doing according to the criteria. the commission will very soon, after consultation with member states and experts, make a report on that and the assessment of that report will be shared with members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairsbefore we put a possible proposal on the agenda. on this proposal, i can assure members and the rapporteur that the commission is extremely dedicated to making this work, and we will do our utmost to make sure that the regulation is implemented. it might sound like a technical problem, but it is not. it concerns individual citizens and we want to encourage people to come here legally with all their papers in order, whether students, researchers, experts or scientists. it is good for them and it is good for us. it is also within the philosophy of the european union to have an area of no internal borders. therefore, we should avoid making life unnecessarily complicated for these people. i think, within this proposal, we have found a good balance. we have been able to take the security considerations into consideration in a satisfactory manner and we can congratulate ourselves. this is the union working at its best with three institutions trying to identify a problem and trying to find a concrete solution to the benefit of the citizen. so, thank you very much for your work, mr coelho, and thank you for a good debate in this plenary.
in writing. i support the efforts made in this report to achieve the extension of freedom of movement for long-stay visa holders to those of short-stay permits and visas. the current arrangements have created many inconveniences for third-country nationals who are legally resident in one of the member states and who wish to travel throughout the european union for various reasons. there are discrepancies between member states as regards the timing, methodology and criteria for issuing visas. in practice, it has been observed that visa applicants rejected by one member state 'try their luck' in other member states. this is because some countries are more demanding, while others are more permissive when it comes to issuing visas and residence permits. in order to avoid creating an influx of visa applications through certain states adopting a more liberal granting policy, i propose to standardise the controls and approval of visa applications between all member states. this will ensure a uniform approach to all applications, thus eliminating the risk of 'gateways' in the schengen area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on mobilising the egf to support the 2 476 people made redundant in the automotive sector in germany. the unemployment periods will be used by the german authorities to raise the general level of skills, not only for vocational training and higher education, but also to enable migrant or low-skilled workers to acquire basic skills for reintegration into the labour market. at european level, in the machine-building industry, we are faced with such situations in sweden, where 2 258 workers were made redundant, in austria 744 redundancies were made in enterprises producing cars, trailers and semi-trailers, and in belgium the industry made over 2 500 redundancies. in europe, over 8,000 jobs will be lost due to the restructuring of the machine-building industry. financial assistance for displaced workers should be made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, but this is a short-term measure which does not solve the problem of job loss. the eu also needs a strong industrial policy in the machine-building industry to preserve existing jobs and even create new ones.
in writing. − in september 2009, lithuania submitted an application for assistance for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) relating to redundancies in 128 enterprises in the building sector. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the egf for building construction in lithuania. i believe that the eco-efficient economy and the construction of energy-efficient buildings can contribute to the economic recovery of the eu. it is estimated that these sectors can create around 2 million jobs at european level by 2020. in 2006, the construction sector had some 2.9 million enterprises generating €510 billion and employing 14.1 million people across the eu-27. as a result of the economic and financial crisis, in lithuania at the beginning of 2009 the volume of construction activity decreased by 42,81% and 48,04% respectively compared to the first part of 2008. this has a negative impact on lithuania, as it has one of the highest unemployment rates in the eu. the construction sector has been particularly affected, losing almost 10% of lithuanian jobs in 2008 alone.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to help bring the additional protocol to the lisbon agreement into force. this agreement creates a mechanism to ensure cooperation between the contracting parties in the event of pollution accidents and obliges them to establish and implement their own emergency structures and plans. this agreement is part of a network of regional maritime agreements that the eu has concluded with certain individual member states and neighbouring third countries. the network is made up of the helsinki convention, the bonn agreement, the barcelona convention and, in this case, the lisbon agreement, each covering different parts of the sea around eu countries and aiming at the individual or collective intervention of the contracting parties in cases of pollution or threat of pollution of the seas or coasts, to protect the environment and the health of citizens.
in writing. − the european union's internal market has expanded substantially in recent years and now has almost 500 million consumers in 27 countries. a harmonisation of consumer protection principles and rules throughout the european union and an improvement in their enforcement mechanisms is an achievable objective, without the expectation that the supply of products and services in all 27 countries will reach the same quality in the short or medium term. the current difficult economic situation in europe is manifested in a reduction in incomes and an increase in unemployment, which translates, at community level, into a real need for better management of the daily basket. the attitude of the european consumer, who is directly affected by the economic downturn, is particularly evident in the goods and services he buys and wants to have in good quality so that he can make the most of them. consumer protection measures are therefore becoming increasingly important. strengthening market surveillance structures in all member states to ensure that products placed on the market meet the highest safety standards is a solution to the current state of affairs.
in writing. − i believe that, after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and in the context of the current economic crisis, the interests and protection of consumers must be firmly defended. specific tools are needed to be made available to consumers so that they are guaranteed effective integration of their interests into all european union policies.
in writing. − the internal market offers citizens and businesses many opportunities. the internal market generally works well, but sometimes mistakes can be made. solvit is a problem-solving network in which eu member states work together to solve problems arising from the misapplication of internal market legislation by public authorities without resorting to legal proceedings. in each member state of the european union (as well as in norway, iceland and lichtenstein) there is a solvit centre. we voted for this report to give solvit a boost in dealing with complaints from both citizens and businesses.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which will allow member states to continue with measures to protect against the spread of rabies but which will also lead to the free, safe movement of pets throughout europe after 2011. the extension of the derogation for certain countries until 2011 will allow them to continue with tests and health checks for diseases such as rabies. this transitional period is an important step towards the eventual free, safe movement of pets in the european union. i would like to congratulate all those who worked to secure the agreement on the new comitology procedure. it is a good compromise which will allow an effective response if member states have justified concerns over the spread of other diseases. it also ensures that, when using delegated powers, the commission will consult a variety of experts – commission experts, member state experts, non-governmental experts and parliament’s experts. we must ensure that this commitment is upheld. in the wider context, we have received written assurances that this report will not set a precedent for the future use of delegated powers. this takes into account parliament’s concerns about setting a precedent for the new comitology procedure under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation because i consider it a welcome correction of an earlier measure restricting the rights of long-stay visa holders in a member state. as society is in a state of constant change, european legislation must not remain static either, because we are facing new problems and challenges and, at the same time, we are coming to have at our disposal new tools to manage phenomena such as those related to, for example, free movement.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is definitely a clear ‘no’ to the latter point on the ipcc. if i should distance myself from everything that is not in this paper, then i would distance myself from a lot of things. this is a way of trying to take for granted that we are facing a challenge, that we have to solve it and that the eu has to take the lead in terms of how to solve it. that is the thinking behind this paper. i do not agree that the eu does not have an impact on international negotiations. you are quite right that we do not have as much impact as we would like, to think that we could just dictate what is going on. we are dependent upon others. however, we saw something very new in copenhagen: whereas in the past the eu often had only a few partners when going into international negotiations and trying to get things done, this time leaders representing more than 80% of global emissions in copenhagen promised that, from now on, they would also be on track. that changes the whole dynamic substantially. may i remind you that to get the emerging economies on board and to get them to be co-responsible has been a european priority for years, and that was actually achieved in copenhagen. to mrs carvalho: yes, i agree very much that we should prepare both technically and politically, and that we should be better at doing so, not least so that, when we come to the negotiating table, we do not just say what we want and then, when the rest of the world disagrees with us, we do not really know what to do because we have expended all our energy trying to come together on a very firm and detailed formulated position. we should be more flexible in the way we negotiate this. - og så til sidst til dan jørgensen: jeg er selvfølgelig uenig i, at vi ikke skal have en aftale i mexico. det, der er diskussionen, det er: tror vi, at vi kan få alle detaljer, inklusive aftalens form, på plads i mexico. det er der, min bekymring er. jeg mener sådan set, at vi netop øger presset på usa og på kina og på andre ved at sige, at der skal være helt konkrete ”deliverables”, helt konkrete resultater skal nås i cancún. det kan ikke bare udskydes. jeg prøver at gøre det svært for dem ikke at levere i mexico. jeg tror, at hvis man skal nå det, så skal man nok passe på med at fokusere for meget på den juridiske form, for det kunne godt blokere for, at vi kunne blive enige om nogle indholdsmæssige ting. der er en masse mellemregninger i dette her, en masse ”hvad tror vi, hvad hører vi – hvad tror vi f.eks. er muligt at få usa med til tre uger efter, at de har haft et midtvejsvalg?”. der er mange faktorer, der indgår i det her, men jeg tror, at dan jørgensen kender mig godt nok til at vide, at det jo ikke er fordi, jeg ikke synes, at vi skal være ambitiøse i mexico. vi skal bare prøve at definere, hvad det maksimale er, vi kan få ud af mexico. det er sådan set det, der er omdrejningspunktet for strategien, som jeg har prøvet at præsentere her i dag.
in writing. the eu has every chance of becoming the leader in reducing co2 emissions. the copenhagen summit may have left many disappointed because of the reluctance of some participants to commit to clear targets for preventing climate change. india and china have recently sent messages to the un about their determination to meet the goals of the copenhagen accord, as vague as it was. it is an important signal and the eu can take the lead globally to bring all states, especially those in asia whose industrial capacity is growing every month, back to the table. climate change is a certainty, just as it is a certainty that pollution is accelerating it. the eu's ambitions to set an example in pollution reduction actions are thus justified. and the goal of becoming the most unpolluted region in the world can only be to our benefit. the benefits are not just the immediate benefit of a cleaner environment. a european-wide shift towards a green industry and economy will create jobs, open up new avenues for research and, not least, reduce the costs to individual states.
in writing. i welcome the important place given to climate change in the commission's communication - europe 2020 - a european strategy for smart, green and inclusive growth. two points are worth noting. first, that an important tool is investing in greener, lower-carbon technologies. these investments will protect the environment, but at the same time create new business opportunities and new jobs. the european union can play an important role in the world market in this sector. the so-called flagship initiative: 'a resource-efficient europe' is also important. the commission's request that member states use the structural funds to invest in energy-efficient public buildings is certainly part of the solution, but i think we need to give at least equal attention to the residential sector, namely the formerly built collective housing buildings which are the major energy consumers in some member states, especially in the east.
in writing. i believe that we have learned from the failure in copenhagen and to demonstrate this we need to revise our strategy to get a legally binding agreement in mexico. prompt action is needed to translate the political agreement into action, such as the operationalisation of the €7.2 million 'rapid initial funding' for developing countries. the eu has notified its wish to be associated to the agreement and has presented, for information, a unilateral commitment to reduce the eu's overall emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels and, in a conditional offer, to increase this reduction percentage to 30% if other major emitters agree to contribute in an appropriate proportion to the overall reduction effort. by february 18, 40 states had notified the reduction plan and 100 had joined the agreement, but it's not enough. i call on the high representative and commissioner for climate change to urgently present a climate diplomacy strategy and for the eu and the mou to include climate change policies in all bilateral and multilateral strategic partnerships to achieve the major goal. strategic partnerships to combat climate change must include ngos and civil society.
in writing. – despite the disappointment of copenhagen, some good progress was made, including the short-term financing we secured for developing countries. not only will this provide concrete help on the ground, it will also help to build trust between partners who were divided at copenhagen. in the coming months and years, we have to show the developing world that we will honour our commitments to funding for adaptation and mitigation, and we need to be sure that the funds are spent in the best possible way in order to achieve their objectives. essential progress was also made in copenhagen regarding monitoring, reporting and verification. these link directly to building trust, because such a system will enable us to see that everyone is playing their part and will allow us to determine the effectiveness of our policies and how we should adapt them in the future. the european union needs to continue to implement its emission trading scheme and other initiatives, such as energy reductions in buildings. we need to meet our emissions targets and show how we can all benefit from energy savings. providing a successful example of an emission reduction policy which translates into benefits for ordinary people is the best way of convincing others to follow.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i am going to answer the questions put by mrs flašíková beňová and mrs flautre on a matter which directly affects human rights, which affects all of us and which affects a large part of the population. because the roma population, as is well known, is the first ethnic minority to live in the european union, and not exactly at the same level as the average citizen of the union. to be specific in relation to the questions you have asked me, there is one that deals with the application of the structural funds in this area and i must tell you that the conclusions which the spanish presidency intends to adopt in the council include these ten basic principles, among which is the revision or modification of the current operational programmes of the structural funds, as well as the future regulations from 2014. we insist that the structural funds be used to the full to promote the integration of the roma population and, in particular, we propose that comprehensive actions be launched in both rural and urban areas, starting with the recent amendment of article 7 of the erdf. the aim is to promote roma communities in an integrated way by improving their housing and living conditions. the second question concerns the action of local authorities. we believe that in order to make the structural funds accessible to the roma population, it is necessary that local authorities and roma organisations, including the roma population itself, are actively involved in all stages of the process, i.e. planning, management, monitoring and evaluation of european funds. the council will also propose in its conclusions that the european commission provide technical support and guidance to member states and local authorities, and that horizontal coordination between states and vertical coordination between the european, national, regional and local levels be facilitated. a third question is whether the presidency trio has a strategic proposal, a strategic agenda, in this respect. i have to tell you that the programme of the trio of presidencies explicitly mentions the social and economic integration of the roma. it is a phrase which is in the programme adopted unanimously by the general affairs council and which therefore corresponds to the strategy for the next year and a half, which is the period covered by the programme of the trio of presidencies. we understand that short-term and long-term measures must be taken. in the short term we must give priority to the instruments i have mentioned above and also adopt a work plan to deal immediately with problems such as pupils attending special schools, in some cases predominantly, or only, for roma - with which there is therefore an obvious disagreement - or problems relating to housing - of which we have spoken before - as well as in the field of health and access to employment, to correct inequalities. and in the long term we also want to see a horizontal approach, mainstreaming, of roma issues in all european union policies, and this must be done within the framework of the so-called open method of coordination and in areas such as fundamental rights, the fight against discrimination, regional development, education, access to public jobs and public services. and finally, as regards non-discrimination, it is well known that the spanish presidency is trying to promote, during its six-month term, and the presidency trio too, the adoption of a directive which has been unable to be adopted for some time in the european union, without reaching its final conclusions, which is the comprehensive directive on combating discrimination and equal treatment, which is essential precisely for those groups who suffer particularly from discrimination and, therefore, specifically, the roma community.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr swoboda and his colleagues for tabling this oral question on the european roma summit. it allows the commission to express its commitment to ensuring the protection of fundamental rights, on the one hand, and full social and economic integration into our societies on the other. we have just heard the council making a real plea about the way the member states have to go ahead by putting this in the mainstream of their policies. as you know, this debate is taking place just some weeks before the second roma summit, which will be hosted in córdoba by the spanish presidency on 8 and 9 april. the commission welcomes and actively supports this initiative. i think this initiative will be a welcome moment to take stock of developments at national, european and international level since 2008. it will then help us to contribute to a common perspective for the future. two years ago the first summit was held. how far have we got? you can see a glass as being half full or half empty. of course there have been significant improvements but there are also significant gaps. your question rightly highlights the central role of the european union’s instruments and policies and the importance of strengthening cooperation between all the key actors – member states, institutions at european level, international organisations and civil society. the commission is committed to enforcing a directive which prohibits discrimination on the grounds of race and ethnic origin, and roma discrimination is fully covered by this directive. we now have legislation at european level and the framework decision on racism and xenophobia, which will be a key tool to tackle the racism that roma people suffer from. by november of this year, all member states should put into place criminal penalties for racist and xenophobic crimes, as laid down in the framework decision. as i have already announced, i am committed to monitoring the implementation of this framework decision as closely as possible. the commission is fully aware that this is not enough and that strong legislation needs to be complemented by information and awareness-raising about rights and obligations. to this end, the commission is addressing roma issues in the context of the eu campaign ‘for diversity. against discrimination’ and in specific training for legal practitioners. quite rightly, the structural funds, the rural development funds and the instruments for pre-accession were underlined as being important levers for change because they allow member states to implement ambitious programmes which are targeted to the roma. it is evident that these programmes must be very down to earth and pragmatic, based on evidence and must approach the living conditions of the roma in all their complexity. this is not an issue that can be solved by a simple slogan. it needs a lot of concrete work. that is why the commission is encouraging member states to use the full potential of these funds to support roma inclusion. to this end, we have launched a series of high-level bilateral visits to member states with significant roma populations. they should lead the concrete commitments with agreed targets. the first event took place in october 2009 in hungary with the full cooperation of the government. others will be organised in the future. another concrete example of the commission’s commitment to using the structural funds for tackling roma exclusion is the amendment that has been proposed to article 7(2) of the regulation on the european regional development fund. a very large majority in this house voted for the report by your colleague, mr van nistelrooij, at the beginning of last month: a measure which opens new policy and funding opportunities for housing for the benefit of marginalised communities where we can target the roma specifically, although not exclusively. finally, thanks to the european parliament, there are the pilot projects on roma inclusion, with a budget of eur 5 million over two years. this pilot project addresses early childhood education, self-employment through micro credits and public awareness. the evaluation of this pilot project will be carried out jointly by the undp and the world bank. i am very much looking forward to this evaluation because the evaluation will bring us the information about what we have done well and where the deficiencies are so that we can build on this in order to go ahead with a very targeted action afterwards. the european platform for roma inclusion was launched as a joint initiative of the commission and the czech presidency in april 2009. its objective is to bring together relevant actors at european, national and international level, as well as actors from civil society, and make existing policies altogether much more coherent. this platform has led to the elaboration of the common basic principles for roma inclusion, which is annexed to the council conclusions on roma inclusion adopted in june of last year. these conclusions call upon the commission to take the 10 common basic principles for roma inclusion into account when designing and implementing policies. further meetings of the platform are expected to take place under the spanish presidency and the belgian presidency so it is not a one-off action but it is followed up. i very much welcome the strong commitment of the trio of presidencies on this objective because we need to play into each other’s hands so that progress can be made. the commission will continue to contribute to the trio’s actions through its policies and instruments, in close partnership of course with member states and civil society. ahead of the roma summit, i would like to inform this house that my colleague commissioner andor and i will publish a communication on the social inclusion of the roma people, looking at the challenges ahead and outlining the eu’s contribution to meeting this challenge. this communication will then be the basis of the discussion in córdoba.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in view of the second roma summit i would like to share with you a couple of ideas, in the hope that they will take effect as soon as possible. firstly, i strongly believe we need a broad and coherent strategy on roma inclusion and we also need an action plan with clear benchmarks and appropriate budgeting. in my view, it should be a strategy not only for the eu member states, but also for other countries where roma communities live and which are either in the enlargement process or in the neighbourhood policy, thus allowing the eu to use the most appropriate tools available to it on roma policies. secondly, i am convinced that we must apply the lessons learned from the gender equality policy, namely mainstreaming. ‘roma mainstreaming’ should become the working approach of all eu institutions. thirdly, when it comes to the expertise on roma we should consider some affirmative actions, especially hiring roma experts in the council, the commission and parliament. it is on this note that i have prepared letters to president van rompuy and president barroso recommending them to lead by example and hire roma advisors.
as one of the largest and most vulnerable minorities in europe, roma need to be an even more active topic on the european agenda. unemployment, poverty, abuse, discrimination and, not least, poor access to education are common problems faced by the roma minority, which ultimately lead to social exclusion. i believe that an integrated programme at european level is needed, which corresponds to their culture and values, given their free movement. children make up 46% of the roma population, due to the compound effect of high birth rates and, unfortunately, low life expectancy. a real opportunity for them would be access to education. although access to and the right to education are guaranteed by european standards, most children from poor roma communities do not attend school at all or drop out. a concrete step would be to include these children and young people in the full compulsory education system, thus preventing early school leaving. in the 2009-2010 school year, the romanian ministry of education allocated 7 483 special places in high schools across the country, with only 2 460 pupils enrolled, of whom 2 246 were admitted. but the effort must be on both sides. to improve their living standards, the roma minority must act responsibly. lack of education excludes active participation in the social, economic or political life of the country in which the roma live. the european union supports the integration of roma into society through various funding programmes, such as the european social fund, the european regional development fund, the progress and 'youth in action' programmes. thank you, sir.
the economic and social development of the roma minority group is one of the most sensitive and controversial issues facing the countries of central and eastern europe. we do not have exact estimates of the actual number of roma in the eu, but what we do know is that the roma minority is the largest and poorest transnational ethnic minority. the european union needs a coherent long-term approach, because national policies are not enough to change the situation of roma. the responsibility for improving the living conditions of the roma population lies with each state, but the success of this process lies largely in addressing the phenomenon in its entirety through coordinated action. the lack of perspective of the younger generation is, in my opinion, one of the biggest problems we face. the roma population is a young population, with a significant proportion under the age of 20. in the knowledge-based and innovative society that europe wants to develop, if we do not take immediate action, the gap between young roma and the rest of the population will widen. children and young people are included in few current policies and strategies, although the large number of children and young people in the roma population allows them to play the role of the generation of change. the process of sustainable development must start with a generation of children who have access to education, health care and all the opportunities enjoyed by children in the majority population. i would therefore like to point out that the commission's proposal for the eu 2020 strategy does not contain any objectives on how to solve the problems of the roma community. if we do not take concrete action, if we do not make major changes in our approach, millions of young roma will continue to face social exclusion and marginalisation throughout their lives. the lack of hope will make these communities unsafe for their residents and for the rest of the population. we need to give the roma community a real chance to change their perspective. at the heart of the european project is solidarity as a fundamental value, which is why we must move from the political will to take action to the concrete implementation of it.
i would like to express my hope from the outset that the roma summit in cordoba will be the decisive moment for the adoption of a common strategy for roma inclusion. the living conditions of this community remain poor and discrimination against them is deepening, despite the fact that the amounts allocated in recent years for projects dedicated to improving the situation are close to half a billion euros. i think it's time we move from good intentions to action. unfortunately, the european commission has not yet shown the will to coordinate actions to improve the living standards and social integration of roma, and to combat racist actions against them. i think it is necessary to make the roma problem a specific, well-defined task for the commissioner for social affairs, and it would be very useful to include roma specialists among the commission's experts in charge of this issue. i also believe that we need a social as well as a cultural approach, so as not to deepen the existing inequalities in both literacy and employment. in this context, i ask the commission to encourage programmes for access to the labour market for migrant roma, cooperation between local authorities and roma communities and to consider closer collaboration with non-governmental organisations.
indeed, the first european union roma summit marked the recognition of the individual failure of european states to ensure roma rights and integration and was a first step towards a common and long-term strategy at union level. unfortunately, there is a massive gap between the plans and studies and their implementation in order to visibly improve the lives of the roma community, which remains the most vulnerable ethnic group in europe, facing the highest levels of poverty and social exclusion. and the prospects are not good, considering that about half of the roma population is made up of minors, due to high birth rates and low life expectancy. i believe that the first step in a coherent inclusion strategy must be to ensure non-discriminatory access to education for the younger generation of roma, who alone can play the decisive role of change agent, for integration into the labour market and for breaking the vicious circle of social exclusion.
the roma constitute a crossborder ethno-cultural community of over 10 million people across europe. the social problem of the roma requires concerted, long-term action involving the european union and the member states. important initiatives have been taken in this area, but i think we need to go further. we need to adopt a genuine european roma strategy with well-targeted actions and regular impact assessments. i come from a country with a large roma community and i welcome the fact that today we recognise the roma problem as a problem of europe as a whole. in romania, a strategy for improving the situation of roma has been applied since the pre-accession period. they are given special places at public universities free of charge, which contributes substantially to the increase in the level of education and culture among this community. national and local public authorities are working to promote roma social inclusion and integration into the labour market, to combat extreme poverty and to improve access to health services. but it needs strong european financial support to achieve the desired results.
in writing. statistics show that unfortunately roma are the most hated and discriminated ethnic minority in europe. we have seen the difficulties that several member states, including myself, have concerning the social inclusion of the roma. this clearly shows that this is a broader european issue that we must handle together. better access to education and employment, is crucial so that we avoid the tendency of roma to choose other more easier but harmful ways of making money. we need to fully apply the anti-discrimination legislation to roma people and to take further initiatives to integrate them in our society. so far we haven't had any coherent strategy. i wish that this second european rome summit brings about a real eu strategy for rome. structural and pre-accession funds should be more efficiently used to finance such initiatives. i would also like to stress that this strategy should be a tool of coordination and an impetus for the member states. the initiatives have to be taken at local level and benefit from the expertise of local ngos and roma themselves who know what the main difficulties are, so that this strategy really meets roma people's needs.
in writing. – the roma continue to be one of the most disadvantaged minorities in all of europe, subject to widespread discrimination in all spheres of life. in the last decade, the european union and its member states have devoted attention and resources to improving the situation of the roma. working in cooperation with the roma rights movement, some member states have begun to implement policies aimed at ensuring equal access to quality education for roma children. continuing efforts in this area should remain the highest priority in the coming years. policies need to be comprehensive in order to achieve a maximum systemic impact in closing the gap between roma and non-roma in all areas: education, employment, housing and health. the european union and member states should continue to evaluate their roma-related policies to date and seek ways to eliminate any paternalistic approaches to the roma issue, which treat the roma as dependent, passive recipients of policy benefits. a traineeship scheme should also be set up for young roma to build up their professional expertise through programmes in commission departments and appropriate government institutions.
in writing. we are halfway through the decade devoted to roma inclusion ((2005-2015), and we find that much is said about the roma minority, various programmes and platforms are created, but results are limited. problems related to education, employment, regional development, etc., are persistent and are becoming more acute in some member states. the second roma summit in cordoba this year is intended to reinvigorate the european perspective and find new directions for action. i agree with the need to redefine the principles, but i think we should rather build a transversal, horizontal strategy that addresses the problems of this minority in an integrated way and not exclusively. the most important thing is that the pre-accession funds and structural funds are used correctly and produce the results we want, both for us, the policy-makers, and for civil society and, in particular, the roma minority.
in writing. the first roma summit had at least one positive consequence: the conclusion at community level that roma need education as a first step towards social integration. in this context, i also welcome the second meeting of the european platform for roma inclusion, dedicated exclusively to the education of this ethnic group in europe. in their process of educational reform, it is necessary to involve not only state institutions but also non-governmental organizations whose primary objective should no longer be the identification of acts of discrimination, but the education of ethnicity. reducing illiteracy, completing education and the need for vocational qualification and retraining are opportunities for access to the labour market and for social inclusion. it is clear that we urgently need a positive development in this minority, and this is the responsibility of both the authorities and the roma community itself. the second roma summit should motivate the european commission sufficiently to come up with legislative proposals with a view to achieving visible results. the european commission should also review the social fund and propose an increase in funding for projects aimed at improving the socioeconomic situation of the largest minority in the european union.
in writing. although member states have invested considerable eu and national resources in putting permanently unemployed roma back to work, there is no coherent solution at eu level: member states are faced with the situation in very different ways and to very different degrees. i believe it is important that we can develop a coherent and effective strategy for the roma issue, which is still unresolved and is a common problem for the european union as a legal entity and for the member states. the main topic of the european roma summit scheduled for 8 april in cordoba should be the formulation of the principles of a strategy at european level, so that the roma problem can no longer be "moved", but rather solved by each member state itself, on the basis of a common european strategy. i believe that education is the key to this. i believe that a comprehensive package of programmes is needed to encourage and motivate young roma intellectuals to return to the community and to work within and for the community. this can be greatly helped by the development of a close partnership between the various roma interest organisations, the responsible public institutions, civil society and the cooperating eu institutions. the role of preferential microcredit or government interest reimbursement methods should be enhanced. in the concept of agricultural aid, it is important to consider the objective of enabling roma communities to achieve the conditions that ensure their livelihood. the situation is worse than you might think: long-term unemployment rates have skyrocketed among them, and more and more are being marginalized.
member of the commission. - madam member, in the document on strategy 2020, which is a document for green growth, smart, equitable and inclusive growth, it is obvious that we cannot discuss all the issues. that is why we have other instruments, other opportunities, other frameworks to deal with, as is our responsibility, fundamental issues such as pensions and the dependency of european citizens. i have already said, madam member, that pension funds are important institutional investors. the various types of pension schemes operating on the basis of statutory, occupational or voluntary capitalisation are now playing an increasingly important role in the pension systems of a large number of member states. i repeat that we will work in accordance with the will and commitment of many countries - i know some of them quite well - to the system of allocation, and on this basis we will work on this green paper, which will be ready in the next few weeks or months at the latest. i would be glad if we could have the widest possible debate with you and your interested colleagues.
member of the commission. - president barroso had the opportunity to answer several questions on the main issues of financial movements in this place a moment ago. you have spoken, mr president, of speculation. what i can say as the european commissioner for internal market and services, in charge of regulation and supervision, is that we will not leave any product, any market, any territory out of reach or untouched by intelligent supervision and effective regulation. so everyone in these markets, with various products, will be affected by the effort we are going to make, which is already being made under the supervision package, which is under discussion, and we are going to, in several revisions of the directive, in particular the irp directive, establish strict investment rules. i confirm that we will not leave any of these products and any of these markets untouched by the need, the requirement for transparency supervision, for smart and effective regulation.
i believe that there is a need for long-term strategic thinking on pension reform, both in the private and public systems. i'm talking about the fact that in the '70s, the birth rate went up a lot. these people, in thirty years, will retire, and today the birth rate is very low. those born today will be in the labor force in 30 years and will not be able to secure the resources for pension funds at that time. so i ask you: what steps are you taking to really reform long-term pension systems for the benefit of european citizens, in a sustainable way?
member of the commission. - two different questions are asked. firstly, on the subject of floods, i have come as the internal market and services commissioner to answer a specific question, mr kelly, which was: how can insurance be better used, particularly to compensate people affected in their personal tangible property? i'm going to work on this photograph of the different private insurance systems that exist in a more or less sophisticated way, between countries that have virtually no insurance for this type of disaster, and other countries, like france, that have a system, in the context of natural disasters, that compensates 100 percent. floods, mr president, are not a matter for which i am responsible. i will ask my colleague, mr potočnik, who is responsible for the environment, to give you a written answer on how this directive on floods is being applied or not. but you are right, the key lies in national, even regional or local competence in terms of construction or constructability. we cannot ask brussels to do everything, except that the general rule is obvious: there are areas where we should not build, where we should no longer build. i even had a law passed in my country to move homes and factories from areas that were regularly affected by flooding. i had a law passed in 1995, and we compensate people to leave before the disaster happens again. i would like to gather these ideas and then come back to you, as insurance, with proposals. i would like to say one last word on the question of civil protection, even though that is a matter for other members. this is a subject on which i had done work - as you know - which was supported by the european parliament, at the request of president barroso, in 2006. this work led me to propose the creation of a european civil protection force among the volunteer countries. we can do a little bit of enhanced cooperation, start from the bottom up, to get into the habit of preparing the answers. it's never goodwill that's missing when there's a tsunami or a tragedy in haiti, it's coordination. we would save lives, save time, save money and, at the same time, gain visibility if european volunteers prepared their responses to the different categories of disasters. of course, the answers can vary depending on whether it is an industrial disaster, a disaster like the erika, floods in germany or france, fires in greece, a tsunami, major pandemics or even a terrorist attack like 9/11, which unfortunately can always happen in europe. the aim of this idea, on which my colleagues are working - we shall come back to you with concrete proposals - is to prepare, to pool the preliminary response. in any case, i remain very attached to this idea, on which i had worked a lot, with the support of the european parliament.
member of the commission. − i very much share the concerns expressed in this question about the welfare and wellbeing of europeans, the questions on employment and social protection and fighting poverty. as you know, 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, in order to raise awareness about social problems. hopefully this year will be good not only for discussing poverty, but also for committing ourselves to fighting it and to renewing this political commitment at eu level and among the member states. in order to provide an opportunity for this renewed commitment, the european commission has included in the new eu 2020 strategy a headline target on poverty reduction, which is a reflection of our concern and the lessons learned over the past decades. the objective now is to reduce poverty by a quarter by 2020. fighting poverty requires prosperity, high-quality jobs for those who can work and sustain themselves, and solidarity towards those in need. these elements are all present in the eu 2020 strategy. achieving the headline target on poverty will be supported by a dedicated flagship initiative which is called the european platform against poverty. there are concrete instruments for maintaining and creating jobs at european level through the european social fund, the european globalisation fund and also the recent micro-credit initiative. the actions taken by individual member states are especially important. still more needs to be done to ensure that high quality jobs are accessible to all to start with, but poverty reduction has to go well beyond questions of employment. as is recognised in the eu 2020 communication, effective well designed social protection is indispensable for preventing and tackling poverty and exclusion. the member states are responsible for the financing and organisation of social protection systems, with the commission supporting them in this task. as a key partner in the social open method of coordination, the commission helps to identify and promote clear policy priorities, provides a monitoring framework and facilitates mutual learning. a good example so far includes the active inclusion framework, the benchmarking exercise on child poverty and the monitoring of the social impact of the crisis. we will work very closely with the two presidencies this year: the spanish presidency and the belgian presidency. both have important initiatives: the first stage of the roma summit which was discussed a few minutes ago in this house and has a very strong impact on poverty reduction, while with the belgian presidency we are preparing an initiative on reducing child poverty. but it is not only governments we have to work with, but also ngos. without the ngos we cannot make completely successful programmes. we support ngos dealing with poverty and social protection in general from the progress fund. these are the main issues and they cover various directions where the commission acts to reduce poverty.
i thank you for your reply, but i would also like to have a word with you about the process of deindustrialization which is taking place in many member states and which is one of the causes of the economic and social crisis we are in. a smart and ambitious european industrial policy will not only strengthen the european union's competitiveness, but above all, it will create new jobs. so what are the measures on european industrial policy that will be included in the current commission's work programme and that will be able to increase the competitiveness of the european union, but above all will be able to create new jobs and thus ensure a decent living for european citizens? thank you, sir.
rail transport must be a priority of the community's transport policy by 2020, with the objectives of opening up competition, improving the interoperability and safety of national networks and developing rail transport infrastructure. however, increased competition must not be achieved at the expense of safety or the quality of rail services. i believe that the review of the first railway package should identify the problems faced by the member states which have received the commission's reasoned opinions and how to solve them. i would point out that the crisis has led to thousands of redundancies in the railway sector, which can seriously affect european rail transport. ertms was deployed by the end of last year on some 2 700 km of railway in the european union, and by 2020 it will be deployed along 24 000 km of railway track. this means huge investments and we are looking forward, commissioner, to new solutions and financial instruments capable of providing the necessary funding. in addition, investments in the corresponding modernisation of rolling stock are also being made.
i would like to return to the situation faced, in times of crisis, by trained and certified railway manpower. in romania, over 6 000 redundancies will occur in the rail transport sector during this period. certainly, the european social fund, the european globalisation adjustment fund will be mobilised to support those affected, but these are temporary solutions. that is why, commissioner, i hope that we will be able to build together a strategy for the sustainable development of rail transport, so that we can provide both safe and high-quality services and jobs for the trained staff in the rail transport sector.
member of the commission. − mr president, i must say that, listening to the speeches after i took the floor, it comes to my mind that a lot of you were not listening properly to what i was saying, because i made it very clear that we were going to respect the acquis communautaire, that i would try to make sure the other parties to the agreement give their ok to the disclosure of the text that is currently being negotiated; i made it clear that it would only apply to commercial infringement of intellectual property rights, and i could continue for some time like this. so i am not going to respond again to all these questions that have been put because, honestly, i think i already answered them in my first speech. david martin put the question, what happens when somebody is in fact leaving not only the european union but leaving a country that is a party to the acta agreement? that is an interesting question because it depends, of course, on where he is going to. if he is going to a country that is not a party to the acta agreement, then it will depend upon the customs and police of the country concerned, but that is beyond our reach. as far as it is within our reach, we will make sure that this is not happening, but of course we cannot speak for others. i do not quite agree with the whole of ms in ’t veld’s reasoning on parliamentary approval and parliamentary control, but let me just say very clearly what i think the case is in the treaty of lisbon. the case is that the council gives a mandate to the commission, and the commission negotiates, and the council has taken a decision on a mandate following their own rules of procedure. whether or not a minister in the council of ministers needs the approval of his national parliament beforehand is not a matter of european law, but a matter of national law, and that differs from one country to another. i know that in your country, for example, for many positions of that kind, they need approval beforehand from the parliament – ok, but there are other countries where this is not the case. we should not, i think, judge the way the council takes a decision. insofar as the council respects the treaty and their own rules of procedure, i think that it is their business and not directly ours. you were, to a certain extent, protecting me in that they should not check my ipod. i have no ipod, so there is no problem yet. in fact, i have had one since yesterday, but i have not yet used it and i am not going to new zealand. it is a little bit too far. for that you need officials who have a little bit more time to go there. lid van de commissie. − ... de ganse discussie over de keuken, die laat ik voor mevrouw stassen ... interesting question, what about china? well china is not, as you know, ms roithová, a party to the present negotiations. china is a serious problem because, as you rightly state, they are the number one source of counterfeiting. now we have several negotiations with them and discussions with them, also the high-level economic dialogue. repeatedly, we put emphasis on intellectual property rights, which is one of the main problems, not only within internet trade but also in a lot of other activities. once acta is concluded it will be open to all countries to sign it, and i hope that china will come to the conclusion that, for their own industry too, it would be beneficial if there were better protection of intellectual property rights, and sooner or later that will come. look at other countries where this also happened in the past: now they have much more interest in intellectual property rights. i do not quite agree on the interpretation by mr le hyaric and mrs trautmann concerning article 218. what article 218 says is that parliament should be informed about all steps in the procedure; well, you are, and even more than that. what we do by way of information goes far beyond what is mentioned in article 218, far beyond, but i have no problem with that. i made it clear in my introductory statement that we will insist on other parties agreeing that we be in a position to disclose the present draft of the text, but it is not correct that we would not be respecting article 218. by the way, let me say to ms in ’t veld, we sent you annex 16 to the agreed statement by all acta participants about maintaining the confidentiality of documents. that was sent to you by the director–general, mr david o’sullivan, on 21 january 2009. of course, that was in the previous parliament, but it is still the same person. mr o’sullivan is the same and ms in ’t veld is the same, so you got it. so it is a little bit difficult then to question me as to what this is all about. finally, let me make it very clear that what i have been saying and what i said in the hearing should be taken seriously. i will do my utmost to have the agreement of the contracting parties that we can fully inform you. as long as that is not the case, i cannot disclose to you the drafts of the agreement because that would breach the confidentiality agreement and breaching such an agreement would have effects that are not limited to the acta negotiations but would spill over to a lot of other negotiations we have with these countries concerned. it would breach the confidentiality as such and that makes all negotiations very difficult, if not impossible, but i will do my best to see that you get the stuff.
in writing. i welcome the question to the commission on transparency and the state of play of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement negotiations. i believe that urgent action must be taken to resolve the situation we find ourselves in. it is not acceptable that the european parliament should be sidelined by the commission in the negotiations for the establishment of acta, given that we must accept the provisions of this treaty. the commission, as has been said, must make public as soon as possible all the negotiations that have taken place for acta and the prospect envisaged for the april meeting. issues such as the compulsion of internet service providers to monitor traffic and to impose restrictions on their networks can have a negative impact on the population both in terms of respecting the right to privacy and in terms of additional costs for users. such a matter must be openly debated and public opinion consulted. the position of european citizens and industry towards these measures must be known and respected in order to avoid abusive and anti-democratic behaviour.
a simple question for the commissioner: under regulation (ec) no 732/2008, countries wishing to obtain preferential conditions under the gsp+ system have the opportunity to submit applications until the end of april this year. as the deadline approaches, i would like to ask the commissioner, if he has this information, which countries have applied so far, whether it is appropriate to grant preferential conditions to new countries as we prepare to change the necessary criteria and i also join my colleagues who have stressed that the european parliament should be consulted in applying the gsp. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i hope we are agreed that we need a proactive foreign policy guided by our european common goals and based on our common values. this policy should recognise the indivisibility of security in the globalised world as it is a source of solidarity of interest both within the european union and outside. such a policy requires and presupposes an adequate institutional instrument. thus the priorities are clear and i am happy to see that these priorities i am going to mention are the same as those of mrs ashton. an efficient external action service, a vibrant neighbourhood policy, a visionary enlargement policy, well-structured partnerships with the strategic players, both traditional and emerging, an effective strategy in coping with the global challenges, namely energy security, non-proliferation, migration, transnational organised crime, transnational expression of poverty, cultural conflicts and so on. as far as the external action service is concerned, we need an institution which should be built not only on the principle of political and budgetary accountability but also on the principle of effectiveness. we should not build a service which preserves the old national competition or the present bureaucratic structure. the two-headed head of the european external actions must wear both hats at all times, thus assuring the unity of the service and the coherence of its action. on external neighbourhood policy, we need an approach which does not exclude russia and turkey. on the black sea we have to move from synergy to strategy. on frozen conflicts we need regional initiatives and mechanisms of regional cooperation and security under international guarantees. on global security we need a new arrangement reflecting the post-bipolar-order realities. we have to promote our values in the world but in a secular way and not as new crusaders. i think that these and many others are our priorities which circumscribe a herculean task. let us work together – parliament, the commission and the council – to accomplish this task.
i would like to commend the quality of the two reports, mr albertini's and mr danjean's. this shows that there is expertise in parliament and i hope, mrs ashton, that you will take advantage of that expertise, it is in our interest, in everyone's interest. i would particularly stress the recommendation in the report on cooperation in the oversight of eu policies by this assembly. in the light of paragraph 1 of the lisbon treaty, i believe that we can share the responsibility of this parliament and the national parliaments for greater coherence in this political approach. but i still express, mrs ashton, the need to expect a much more coherent strategy from you in the field of security policy, and as regards the external action service, i believe that the human resources that will serve this service and the european citizen must be proportionately representative of the expertise of the member states, because, unfortunately, many institutions have reached an undeclared level of incompetence and bureaucracy that could impede a global and coherent vision of the union. finally, i would like to ask you about the battle groups, structures that we have created but, unfortunately, we have not used. they could impede the security policy's image, and i'd like to see what your vision is. as for the atalanta mission, i am of the opinion that a more realistic approach is needed, because unfortunately the success of our forces is not commensurate with the intensity of the piracy. thank you, sir.
(it wasn't my turn, but i'll continue. ) i would first like to congratulate mr albertini on his excellent report, which highlights the role the union must play on the international scene as a global player, a player of first importance. i particularly welcome the introduction of paragraph 47, which underlines the importance of regional cooperation in the framework of the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy, as i believe this is an area where the union's intervention can bring about real change, both economically and politically. on the other hand, i would like to congratulate mr arnaud danjean on the drafting of a report that manages to address all the challenges and, at the same time, all the achievements of the union in the field of security and defence policy. i believe that at the time of the 10th anniversary of the launch of this policy, the proposals in the danjean report are very important in order to improve the union's action, which will certainly contribute to the security of european citizens and, ultimately, to international peace and security. i would like to emphasize here only one point in this excellent report, namely the importance of the partnership with the united states in the field of crisis management, peacekeeping and, in general, military matters. in this respect, the missile defence system project launched by our american partners is important not only for my country, romania, which has decided to be involved, but also, in a broader sense, because the proliferation of ballistic missiles poses a serious threat to the european population. i should like to mention that i supported amendment no 34 tabled in paragraph 87 of the report because i believe that if the missile shield project could benefit from the establishment of a dialogue at continental level, the reference to dialogue with russia is pointless in this context. thank you, sir.
mr president, the reports drawn up by mr albertini and mr danjean are very important documents coming at a crucial moment: the lisbon treaty has just entered into force, the eu has a new parliament and transatlantic cooperation looks more promising. mr danjean’s report addresses the new security challenges facing eu members. to that effect it calls for a white paper which would trigger a public debate and raise the profile of the csdp, establishing a clearer relationship between objectives and interests, on the one hand, and the means and resources to attain them, on the other. the report also comes up with – and this is a very good thing – concrete proposals, and points to the areas which need further effort in the military domain. at the same time some of the proposals, such as the introduction of a european preference principle for defence acquisition and a call for the obligatory participation of the european defence industry in the coming us missile defence system, look pretty impossible to reconcile, while answering every need with a new institution is not always practical. in general, with europe constantly diminishing its military expenditure since the end of the cold war and a public disinclined to support military action in general, the approach to csdp should not only be mechanical but equally political. restoring political will in this respect is thus indispensable for a successful csdp. finally, the report is important because it addresses the very topical issue of the role of the european parliament with respect to csdp. i want to thank mr danjean and my colleagues for their contributions.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr albertini on the preparation of this report. i'm glad my amendments were passed. the european commission last week announced funding for 43 major energy projects, including four in romania. in the future, the commission should give due importance to the constanța-trieste pan-european oil pipeline and to the development of relations with the eastern partnership countries. efforts to implement black sea synergy projects should also be stepped up to ensure more effective cooperation in the area. the republic of moldova can play an important role in both the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy. the european union must pay particular attention to relations with this country and support it on its path to the eu. the union must become more involved in resolving the frozen conflicts in the black sea region, including transnistria. the development of the transatlantic partnership must be a priority for the european union's foreign and security policy. relations with the united states are very important in the process of strengthening global security and stability. the installation of a part of the american anti-missile system on the territory of romania is a proof of the trust given to my country.
in writing. i welcome the albertini report on the main guidelines of the common foreign and security policy and, in particular, the paragraphs on the development of the eastern partnership and european policy in the black sea area. the eastern partnership and the euronest parliamentary assembly provide the right framework for bringing the eu's eastern neighbours closer to european standards, as well as for clarifying the prospect of european accession for countries such as the republic of moldova. i would particularly stress the importance of the rapid and concrete assistance that should be given to the pro-european government of the republic of moldova. in this regard, two european actions are urgently needed: accelerating the process of granting eu macro-financial assistance and abolishing the visa regime for eu travel by citizens of the republic of moldova. in the black sea region, it is essential to continue the european objective of ensuring the eu's energy security. i support paragraph 21 of the report, which insists that the eu ensure the full and rapid implementation of the nabucco project. no less important in this debate is a proper appreciation of the development of the american missile defence project and its importance for european security. romania's involvement in this project demonstrates that romania has become a net supplier of security at european level and has the full capacity to honour its security commitments to allies.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we have an amendment here. normally, our group would vote against but, in order to let us vote in favour, we would like to delete the words: ‘that entails an end to the israeli blockade’. this is because the israeli blockade is too complex an issue, and i believe there is no clear link between the preceding lines and these words. if we can delete these words, i think we could be comfortable with the rest of the amendment, and we could vote in favour. it is a small change but it would allow us to vote in favour.
as is well known, the liberals and democrats were among the first to call for a more concrete approach to the growth strategy, and that is why i would like to welcome the changes that the eu 2020 strategy brings in this respect. however, i believe that certain aspects have not been sufficiently addressed. i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that the 2020 strategy does not make it very clear what the relationship between cohesion policy and this strategy will be, and i believe, mr president, that cohesion policy, as the main financial instrument in regional development, must remain focused on the regions. in addition, the commission proposal gives the council and the member states the primary responsibility for implementing and managing the policies under this strategy, while omitting the importance of local authorities in ensuring concrete results at regional and local level. i believe that the success of the strategy will depend mainly on how it is implemented at national, local and regional level.
the informal european council meeting of 11 february adopted a declaration by the heads of state or government in support of greece's efforts to recover its economic and financial situation. in addition, they discussed what the european union means in 2020, continuing the lisbon strategy. i think this will be a vote for solidarity, because the eu 2020 perspective needs to pursue the priorities set in a much more concise way, but one that allows the specificity of each region to be exploited and the problems faced by each of them to be solved. the need to increase economic competitiveness, to create new jobs, but also to invest in various fields, alongside education and research, is still there. i am convinced that, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, the specific problems of each region, each member state of the european union, will be analysed and dealt with accordingly, so that the objectives we set for 2020 will be achieved. investment in education must be matched by the existence of an infrastructure to enable the implementation of knowledge, social cohesion and the enhancement of europe's global economic competitiveness.
i voted against the goldstone report, although the goldstone report initially seemed to be a good initiative in its intention to analyse the israeli-palestinian conflict carefully and identify the best solutions to the situation in the area. i would have liked this report to be more objective, in line with international law and humanitarian law, but i was unpleasantly surprised to find that in this report the israeli government is treated with the same measure as hamas, which, as we know, is an organisation that is listed by the european union as a terrorist organisation, and as such, i do not think that this report will improve the israeli-palestinian conflict and the tensions in the area in any way. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - the overwhelming adoption of the report shows the care we need to take for small and medium-sized enterprises. currently, 5.4 million microenterprises are subject to the obligation to prepare annual reports, although their scope is limited to a particular local area or region. as there are no cross-border or even national activities, the reporting obligation only creates unnecessary administrative burdens, thus burdening the expenses of these companies (approximately eur 1 170). the report therefore recommends that member states exempt from annual reporting obligations companies that meet two of the following criteria to be considered micro-enterprises: total assets of less than eur 500 000, net turnover of less than eur 1 million and/or an average of 10 employees during the financial year. of course, micro-enterprises will continue to keep accounting records in accordance with the national law of each member state. in the current crisis situation in europe, the private environment of small and medium-sized enterprises (including micro-enterprises) must be encouraged, and seen in this unfortunate context also as an area for absorbing the workforce laid off by the state or private-corporate sector.
in writing. − the last two waves of enlargement of the european union have brought many benefits to both old and new member states, but have also posed a number of challenges. i believe that the decision to grant facilities to micro-entities should be regulated at european level and not be left to each member state, only in this way achieving the performance of reducing bureaucracy for micro-enterprises and generating a balance. particular attention should be paid to removing all these obstacles that block the activity of micro-enterprises and discourage people from obtaining european financial support.
in writing. − especially as the economic crisis has hit small businesses hard, we have a duty to try to provide them with all the facilities that could help them to bounce back and become a support for the european economy. reducing bureaucracy is important in this context. the decision made today is welcome. i hope that as many member states as possible will implement it in an optimal and efficient way, in the interests of small businesses and the economy in general.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy must respond to the problems generated by the economic and financial crisis through measures that directly target the hotspots of member states' economies. if the lisbon strategy has not been a complete success because it has set too many targets, a recovery strategy must focus on a few clear and quantifiable objectives, for example: providing solutions to effectively tackle unemployment - especially among young people, promoting and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises - which create the most jobs and innovations, and increasing the share of the eu budget and national budgets allocated to research and development to 3%. we must realise that the room for manoeuvre for social policies in europe will be reduced in the future because of an ageing population, and that productivity growth can only come from greater investment in technology and education. if we want a more competitive labour market, we will have to restructure social security systems and support more flexible working arrangements. at the same time, such a strategy should support the development of production methods that respect the environment and human health.
in writing. − that strategy 2020 is neither green enough nor social enough is a reality we have all seen. that the objectives are vague and the economic crisis is not being addressed in proportion to its severity is also a pertinent observation. the resolution adopted by the ep plenary therefore has the role of making important additions to the european vision for the next 10 years. although our role as members of parliament is limited by the letter of the treaty, our contribution can be substantial. we must, however, wait for the member states to show political will and reflect on our position constructively. objectives such as 'a social market economy' and 'a budget reflecting smart, inclusive and sustainable growth' are key to overcoming the effects of the economic crisis. investing in education, encouraging student mobility and developing new skills to meet labour market demands are areas for action where we need to build realistic action plans.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe that the eu 2020 strategy must provide an effective response to the economic and financial crisis and give new impetus and european coherence to the eu recovery process by mobilising and coordinating national and european instruments. i support the need for better cooperation with national parliaments and civil society, because only by involving more actors will the pressure on national administrations to deliver increase. i also believe that european industry should build on its pioneering role in the sustainable economy and green mobility technologies by exploiting its export potential. this reduces resource dependency and facilitates the achievement of the necessary 20-20-20 climate change targets.
in writing. - i have read both the report of judge richard goldstone and the conclusions of ambassador dora gold, which debunk many of the arguments of the report of the un commission headed by judge goldstone. in comparing them, i noted the subjectivity of the goldstone report and therefore did not support the resolution on the application of the recommendations of the goldstone report on israel and palestine. the analysis of the facts must be made in a transparent and impartial manner to both sides of the conflict. the goldstone report fails to mention the cause that triggered the israeli operation in gaza: the almost 12,000 rocket and mortar attacks on israeli civilians. after the withdrawal of israeli forces from gaza, the number of rocket attacks increased by 500%. while there were 281 and 179 rocket attacks on israeli territory in 2004 and 2005, after the withdrawal from gaza (in september 2005), the number of attacks increased to 946 in 2006, 783 in 2007 and 1 730 in 2008. no member country of the european union voted in favour of adopting the goldstone report at the united nations human rights council. respect for international law must be a priority for all parties involved.
in writing. the current motion for a resolution, which follows the g20 discussions at the pittsburgh summit and the call of international bodies such as the imf, may be a solution both to avoid further financial catastrophes and to recover the sums that the treasuries have made available to banks to save them from collapse. it is welcome that such legislation has been pioneered in france and belgium (the uk is also considering introducing similar legislation), and we look forward to seeing its effects. according to french estimates, a 0.005% tax will take over 20 billion euros out of the pockets of french banks. however, will the banking community react by limiting the number of speculative transactions - considered harmful - or will it take advantage of the mobility of capital and continue to conduct such transactions through bank branches in countries where this type of tax does not exist? so i think that the success of such a taxation requires a global approach, including bringing it before international bodies like the un. even so, it is hard to believe that joint global action can be achieved (see offshore legislation).
in writing. − the european union must develop its strategic autonomy through a strong and effective foreign, security and defence policy, in order to defend its interests globally, to ensure the security of its citizens and to promote respect for human rights and democratic values worldwide. through more effective european security agreements, member states must show their openness to making the european union a more important player on the international stage. i believe that the future annual report of the council on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) should make direct reference to the implementation of the european union's foreign policy strategy, assessing its effectiveness, and provide the basis for a concrete and direct dialogue with the european parliament, focused on developing a strategic approach to the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. − i would like to make a few references to the subchapter 'western balkans' in the report on the main aspects and basic options of the common foreign and security policy in 2008. it should be noted that at the february 2008 meeting of the general affairs and external relations council it was decided that each eu member state will decide, in accordance with national practice and international law, its relations with kosovo. the first half of this year also sees the international court of justice's advisory opinion on the compliance with international law of the unilateral declaration of independence by the provisional institutions of self-government in kosovo. a balanced approach should be maintained in assessing developments in the stabilisation process in kosovo, given the tensions that were recorded during 2009, including around the november elections. in this regard, i believe that many challenges remain to be met, particularly in the area of law enforcement, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the protection of serbs and other minorities and reconciliation between communities, and the implementation of economic and social reform.
in writing. − the european parliament has been given, by the vote of the citizens of the union, more powers in the budgetary field and in the control of foreign, security and defence policy. in these circumstances, meps must be involved by the other eu institutions in the decision-making process and in the appointment of those who represent the eu internationally. the powers granted to the ep by the treaty of lisbon are intended to increase the legitimacy of decisions on common foreign and security and defence policy. this makes the request for the establishment of a defence council within the foreign affairs council legitimate, as well as the creation of a permanent union operations centre to deal with operational planning and the conduct of military operations. the discussions on the missile shield, in the current form proposed by the us administration, must take place at eu level, with the active involvement of the ep. however, it must be clear that the eu has exclusive rights in determining its defence and security policy and that intervention by third countries is not justified. the union decides how best to ensure the security of its citizens, and this must be done by consensus among its member states, not by involving non-member states.
in writing. - i would like to thank all my colleagues in the european parliament for their support to me in the plenary, voting in favour of amendment 34 to the danjean report on the european security strategy. i have tabled amendment no 34 with the aim of amending paragraph 87 of that report, which referred to the development of the missile shield in europe following a bilateral agreement between the united states and member states such as romania. the amendment proposes to remove the recommendation to develop this system 'in dialogue with russia' and replace this phrase with a more balanced wording of 'continental dialogue'. the new american project for the development of the missile defence system is strictly defensive in nature and guarantees the security of the whole of eastern europe and the western balkans. the project is not directed against russia and, consequently, i do not think there are reasons to turn russia into a participant and possibly a decision maker in the development of the project. these considerations were the basis for the proposal for amendment no 34. i am pleased that this amendment was approved by 358 votes to 1. the number of 'for' votes shows that support has crossed the boundaries of political group and national affiliation, demonstrating the importance of the amendment proposal and the existence of a european majority sharing the same view.
i wish to speak in my capacity as rapporteur of this parliament for iceland. at the moment, as you know, iceland is awaiting confirmation from the council to begin accession negotiations. if iceland becomes a member of the union, as it should, it will be the only member state located exclusively in the arctic. together with finland, denmark and sweden, iceland would bring the number of european union states present in the arctic council to four, along with the united states, russia, canada and norway. this is all the more important, i think, since the european union has unfortunately not been granted observer status in this forum. moreover, i believe that iceland's accession to the union can contribute, firstly, to the diversification of europe's energy resources and, secondly, to the establishment of a multilateral governance in this area, which is attracting more and more interests and which can give rise, as has been shown in previous interventions, to conflicts. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment and the environment protection. in conclusion, i believe that the moment iceland joins the european union, the union will have a greater role in this strategic area. thank you, sir.
the arctic, like the antarctic, is particularly vulnerable to climate change. moreover, its stability is a key to the global climate system. as a promoter of the fight against climate change, the european union must take a firm stance on the arctic region. the european union must show restraint both in the exploitation of offshore resources and in the transit of transport through the arctic area. in the long run, these activities will only further fragment the icebergs and the little ice sheet left, endangering the ecosystems and the people living in the arctic. protecting the icebergs and the polar ice cap from uncontrolled human intervention is a pressing need. the european union must work closely with the united states, canada, norway and russia and exchange information on a continuous basis through seis, eionet and saon.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i think it has been a very interesting debate and i am so glad that we have had the focus on an important region of the world. the passion with which people have spoken about the importance of what we do in terms of policy for the arctic is extremely important for me as i take forward what i believe we should be doing in the future. i want to assure members of the house that preserving the environment and dialogue with the relevant populations – indigenous and non-indigenous – are paramount to the approach that we want to take. we want to make clear in all international discussions that arctic resources should only be accessed and exploited when we have the highest environmental and safety standards and when they are fully respected. we have to continue to underline that the european union wants to work together with all the stakeholders concerned in the arctic to make sure that we face the challenges appropriately. that includes hydrocarbon extraction in that context. for my part i think we have much to contribute, from our diplomacy on environment to our climate change policies; from our extensive arctic research programmes to our policy supporting indigenous policies worldwide. i believe, too, that the arctic council has much to contribute. it is because of the work it does, not least in making sure that there is a full participation of indigenous people – in fact it is the only organisation that allows them to sit alongside sovereign states – that we want to become permanent observers, which a number of honourable members have indicated would be very useful. i think it is possible to find a proper balance between arctic protection and preservation, on the one hand, and the sustainable use of its resources on the other, and we must ensure that we do that properly. the bringing together of seven representatives from different parts of the commission – i think you told me yesterday, madam president – to produce the report is a good example of the future that we wish to have in terms of collaboration and effective working manifested through the work that we do on the ground across the world. finally, i very much look forward to going to lapland this weekend. it will be my third trip there. there is a big meeting to discuss issues with some of the foreign ministers. concerning rovaniemi and the possibility of a centre, there are two possibilities: one is an individual centre, or there is the possibility of networking different centres, and we certainly need to examine that as well.
in writing. arctic issues, from the effects of global warming to resource exploitation and navigation, have received increasing attention in recent times. we must be aware that the future of the planet is closely linked to the future of this area. the melting of the arctic glaciers, the increasing demand for resources, the recent technological advances are some of the reasons why the arctic has become a place of interest for each of us. i believe that the european strategy in this area must focus on protecting and conserving the area, promoting sustainable exploitation of resources in the context of multilateral governance of the region and, above all, involving the people of this area in all these efforts. the emergence of new waterways also requires the establishment of much stricter safety and environmental standards. each maritime area needs a particular approach and europe can draw on the experience gained from programmes developed in other maritime regions, such as the baltic sea area, the mediterranean sea, and can provide examples of good practice in this area.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, on behalf of my political group, i would like first of all to express our condolences to the family of mr orlando zapata tamayo, who has paid the highest price for his convictions. over the years his activism protecting human rights has been an inspiration to many other human rights advocates, inside and outside cuba. the resolution which is proposed by several political groups expresses our deep concern about human rights conditions in cuba. let us be very honest. the situation has not improved and many independent journalists, peaceful dissidents and human rights defenders are still being imprisoned simply because they want to exercise their right to freedom of speech, peaceful meetings and assembly. at the same time, cuban independent ngos are not allowed to work as the government exercises a draconian control over them. at the time of this debate several human rights defenders are on hunger strike. this is a matter of concern as there are indications that mr guillermo farinas’ health, at least, is deteriorating rapidly. it is too bad that, so far, the cuban authorities have disregarded the repeated calls from the eu to unconditionally release all political prisoners. this is why i strongly believe that this parliament should ask the eu to continue to use all possible mechanisms to guarantee the work, and the lives, of those who aspire to a pluralistic and democratic cuba.
acting president of the council. - madam president, this list of countries is not something which can be decided by the presidency of the council. these governments, to whom i referred a moment ago, are interested in developing this strategy and it is necessary to wait for the commission to publish this communication. i do mean that these countries believe that the european union and, in particular, the commission should play a leading role in this strategy by facilitating cooperation in the danube region. the declaration i referred to above, dated 25 february, shows how the danube strategy should serve the purpose of increasing the prosperity, security and peace of the peoples living in the region, through transregional and transnational cooperation and coordination also at that level. it considers that the strategic policy areas to be included in this strategy are energy, the environment, nature protection, transport, infrastructure, innovation, cultural and artistic activities, sustainable economic development, tourism, food security, the economy, cooperation in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises, research and development, migration, sport, education, employment, health, social affairs and other aspects which are developed in a very broad and very ambitious way in this document. the danube strategy is an important document, and i am grateful for the opportunity to mention it. i think that is an ambitious objective and we are currently waiting - as i say again - for that consultation and the commission's communication, but the political will certainly exists. the three members of the presidency triumph and the council presidency have the political will to launch this strategy for the danube region.
the success of the eu danube strategy will depend on an ambitious action plan, but also on the identification of concrete projects to improve the lives of citizens in the danube region. i would like to know whether the identification of these strategic projects for the development of the danube region has begun and what the criteria will be for the selection of these projects.
achieving the eu's climate targets depends on developing a strategy for a gradual transition to low-carbon industry and the use of sustainable energy. new technologies can reduce energy consumption in buildings by up to 17% and carbon emissions from transport by up to 27%, and the introduction of smart metering could reduce energy consumption by up to 10%. a common methodology for measuring energy consumption and carbon emissions is needed to optimise public and private energy consumption. to this end, we need common minimum functional specifications and interoperable smart grids at european level. the commission should co-finance as many large-scale projects as possible to make it possible to use smart metering and smart grids in a uniform way in member states that do not yet have these technologies. i would like to ask whether the commission currently intends to make available additional resources from the union budget to encourage smes to develop low-carbon, sustainable energy production technologies. thank you, sir.
we need an ambitious and smart industrial policy that will enable the union to maintain both its competitiveness internationally and its jobs and production within the union. investments in the development of low-carbon technologies will help the union overcome the economic crisis and can create around 2,7 million jobs by 2020. the european union must invest in european initiatives for renewable energy and its integration into the european electricity grid, in biofuels and in green transport. fast results can be achieved through investments in smart cities and in the energy efficiency of buildings, especially homes. i call on the commission and the member states to increase the budgets allocated to energy efficiency in housing and, in the mid-term review of the use of the structural funds, to take the necessary measures to ensure better absorption of the 4% erdf share for energy efficiency in housing. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the project. thank you, sir.
european agriculture is often singled out as a major source of global warming. of course, this perception is not entirely correct, but we cannot ignore the contribution that agriculture can make to reducing carbon dioxide emissions. the subject has, of course, been raised by other speakers. carbon storage, biomass, and investments in reducing fertilizer use are just a few examples of how agriculture is affected by this problem. that is why, in the context of the discussions on investments in low-carbon technologies, i believe that agriculture must be among the priorities and not be completely neglected, as has happened, for example, in another european strategy - i am referring to the eu 2020 strategy. thank you, sir.
one of the main objectives of the european union is to develop a low-carbon economy. it is aimed that by 2020 20% of all energy produced will be based on renewable sources. for romania, the target is more ambitious, at 24%. according to some studies, dobrogea region in southeastern romania is the second area of wind energy potential in europe, after northern germany. the largest onshore wind farm in europe is currently being developed here, which will have 240 wind turbines and produce 600 mw of renewable energy. the first stage of the project will be completed this year, when the 139 plants will be commissioned, and the entire project will be completed in 2011, in the municipalities of fântânele and cogealac in the county of constanţa. the project is important for romania's energy security as it will reduce the import of energy resources. thank you, sir.
the fact that we are having a debate in the european parliament today on investments in low-carbon technologies shows that the european union wants to assert its leadership role in reducing and improving energy consumption and in ensuring a healthy environment. i believe our role now is to encourage areas such as research and innovation to identify solutions that will lay the foundations for a sustainable european energy system. it is necessary to establish the financing needs in this area in order to increase the european union's international competitiveness. i believe it is essential to pay attention to the specific potential of green energy at regional and local level. the region of romania from which they come has a significant geothermal energy potential which is currently under-exploited. the reasons are varied, but i think we need to give local authorities a strong role to encourage them to develop public-private partnerships. thank you, sir.
the frequency and magnitude of the disasters and natural catastrophes we face in recent times is worrying. it is time for michel barnier's 2006 proposal to create a european civil protection force to become a reality. a solution to unlock the revision of the european solidarity fund regulation also needs to be found urgently. parliament, in its 2006 position, approved the amendment of the regulation in order to allow for a rapid and efficient response to the request of the member states. the reduction of the ceiling for mobilising the fund and the rapid payment based on a preliminary assessment are extremely important provisions included in the revised form of the regulation. i therefore ask the council to unblock the file on the revision of the european solidarity fund regulation, to call for its immediate revision and not to reject the new regulation. thank you, sir.
i welcome the initiative of the european parliament resolution on the major natural disasters in the autonomous region of madeira and the effects of hurricane xynthia in europe. i express my sympathy to the people affected and my appreciation to all those who have contributed to the post-disaster response. i believe that european regions should be given much more financial support for disaster prevention measures. the european union can and does develop complex systems for analysing the causes of disasters in order to devise the most effective measures to prevent them. i believe that specific measures for each european macro-region can be included in this respect. i am now thinking, although not invoked in this resolution, of the eu strategy on the danube, the river being the source of natural disasters in the recent past, 2004 and 2002. moreover, the complementary use of all available resources, in the most accessible way possible, will make it possible to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion as the basis for solidarity action in the event of such disasters. thank you, sir.
in writing. the global incidence of natural disasters is worrying. we are now seeing the consequences of the irresponsible actions of the past and we are facing a new challenge: tackling the effects of climate change. obviously, the costs of reconstruction in areas affected by natural disasters are incomparably higher than the costs of prevention. at union level, we have tools for such situations, which are in addition to the projects carried out by the regions. for example, the western region of romania, which i represent, is promoting a project to improve the capacity and quality of the emergency response system. the available financial instruments - including the structural and cohesion funds, but also the rural development fund - need to be revised to provide greater flexibility in emergencies. as regards the solidarity fund, a reduction in the ceiling for mobilisation and the possibility of paying advances from these amounts would speed up and make intervention and reconstruction efforts more efficient. last but not least, we will have to pay due attention to an older initiative, namely the rapid response force, which covers the entire territory of the european union, because natural phenomena affect neighbouring regions, which creates the conditions for solidarity and cross-border action.
in writing. − the european union is the most democratic structure in the world, and the fundamental value on which it was built was respect for human rights. it is therefore commendable and gratifying that all parliamentary groups have been united in condemning the human rights abuses of the cuban authorities, as well as the constructive, open-minded approach adopted at eu level towards cuba. we live in the 21st century, and the crime of opinion and conscience should be erased from the philosophy of all states in the world, no matter how long its history of totalitarianism and dictatorship. international dialogue, not sanctions, can change mindsets so that no one who disagrees with his or her own authorities suffers the abuses and injustices that are characteristic of regimes that have no respect for man. tragedies like that of cuban dissident orlando zapata tamayo, 'guilty' of a crime of conscience, must not be repeated. there are other political prisoners in cuba now who are in danger. the eu must be involved in human rights and must act swiftly through diplomatic channels to ensure that the zapata tragedy is not repeated in cuba or anywhere else in the world.
in writing. − the eu has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, to reducing energy consumption by 20% and to producing at least 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. the eu also aims to set a global example in conserving resources and protecting the environment. these ambitious objectives can only be achieved by clear deadlines for the union as a whole and for each of its member states. investing in low-carbon energy technologies is key to meeting the proposed 2020 targets, which are not as far away as they seem. achieving these targets requires a substantial financial effort, €58 billion, according to meticulous calculations, from public and private sources. but this financial, logistical and administrative effort will make the eu a world leader in innovation and will have positive effects on its economy, creating jobs and opening up new prospects in research, which has been unfairly underfunded for decades. investments in the development of low-carbon energy sources will deliver results in the medium and long term with a positive impact across the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the major natural disasters in the autonomous region of madeira and the effects of hurricane xynthia in europe. i believe that the european union must show solidarity with those who suffer from these natural disasters. regions in portugal, western france, various regions in spain, notably the canary islands and andalusia, as well as belgium, germany and the netherlands, were affected. in western france, the storm killed about 60 people, left many more missing, and destroyed several thousand homes. the european commission may provide financial support to the affected regions through the european union solidarity fund. it is very important that in the event of major natural disasters there is solidarity between member states. there must be coordination between local, national and european authorities in the recovery efforts of the affected areas. also, effective prevention policies should not be neglected. both in this case and in the future, we need to ensure that european funds reach the affected regions as quickly as possible to help those affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the families of the victims of the natural disasters in madeira and the victims of hurricane xynthia. recently, due to climate change, natural disasters have become more frequent, so we need to make sure that the european union is prepared to respond as quickly and effectively as possible. i voted for the european parliament's resolution calling on the commission to consider the possibility of increasing the rate of community co-financing for regional operational programmes. no member state is able to cope with large-scale natural disasters on its own, so the european commission needs to adapt the european solidarity fund to ensure that member states affected by disasters can access it in a shorter time and in a more efficient way.
on behalf of the epp group. this is the second time in the last two weeks that i have spoken in plenary about gilad shalit and i am pleased that the efforts made together with my colleagues have resulted in this resolution. 'the case of gilad shalit' demonstrates the european union's deep concern about the humanitarian situation in gaza. gilad's rights, as laid out in the geneva convention, should not be conditioned by the israeli-palestinian conflict. moreover, gilad shalit's father, mr. naom, has repeatedly stated that neither he nor his family is politically involved. they didn't choose to be in this situation today. the ideal for us europeans would be two states living side by side in peace and security. since 2006, negotiations have been going on through various intermediaries for gilad's release, and there is a very controversial proposal to exchange gilad for 1,000 palestinian prisoners. gilad and his family need our help. thank you very much.
i want to join those who have called in this house, both today and yesterday, for the immediate release of gilad shalit and i also want to express my sympathy to his family. in my speech, i would like to say to those who may be asking the question: why a resolution on the gilad shalit case and why now? there were colleagues who recalled that it will soon be four years since the young gilad shalit was held hostage in brutal conditions and in defiance of the international norms recognized by the third geneva convention concerning the treatment of prisoners of war. as any of us can appreciate, every extra day of captivity means terrible suffering for shalit and his family. i would add one reason, namely that gilad shalit is a european citizen, a victim of terrorism in europe, and today, on the european day of the victims of terrorism, i do not think there is a more significant gesture than this resolution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected. in this parliament we had many posters in all the languages of the european union saying that violence against women can be stopped. today we are talking about violence in mexico and i think it is normal to recognize that mexican women, indigenous and non-indigenous, are the least protected victims by local and federal authorities. mexican women are victims of all kinds of violence, from domestic violence to sexual violence and torture perpetrated by members of the military or police, and also victims of homicide. unfortunately, so far, the responses of the mexican authorities have been ineffective and that is why it is right to speak of almost absolute impunity. our resolution calls on the mexican government to fight femicide - a harsh word, but correct when we see that almost all the murders committed against women remain unpunished. one example: in mexico, in the last four years only 11% of the criminals who murdered almost 700 women were convicted. at the same time, it seems that women are the preferred victims of the judicial system. there is no other way to explain how it was possible that two indigenous women alberta alcántara and teresa gonzález were sentenced to twenty-one years in prison and have spent so far more than three years in jail for kidnapping, alone, during an incident in a market six men of the federal investigation agency. i hope the judge who will decide in a week's time on the appeal of this case will realise the ridiculousness and injustice of the situation! but violence against women starts in the family. i hope that the mexican legislators will soon improve the general law on women's access to a life free of violence so that the types of violence and the mechanisms that make the rules operational are defined. it would also be normal to establish that domestic violence and rape in marriage are criminal offences. in addition, for mexican society to change and reject violence against women, it is important that in schools this issue becomes a primary issue of education for young people.
on behalf of the epp group. the escalation of violence in the mexican states bordering the united states and especially in ciudad juárez is of great concern. the last few months have been particularly bloody, with the federal intervention in this area accompanied by a substantial increase in drug-related crime. the war against drug traffickers is thus doubled by a war between rival criminal clans, resulting in killings of exceptional brutality. mexico is, i think, a case in point, illustrating the difficulty of taking strong action against crime to ensure national security. it is very important that we here in the european parliament send a clear signal of support for the efforts of the mexican government to eradicate crime and thereby improve the situation of the civilian population. at the same time, we must encourage the mexican authorities to continue with the essential reforms in the area of strengthening the rule of law, in particular the reform of the justice and criminal systems. thank you, sir.
the mexican government must make a firm commitment to the fight against drug trafficking, to respect human rights and the rule of law. drug trafficking has led to violence and loss of life. tijuana and ciudad juárez were among the ten most dangerous cities in the world in 2009. since 2007, mexico has had 15,000 drug war homicides, with 7,724 in 2009 alone. young people and women are the most affected by drug trafficking and use. in mexico, the economic crisis can turn into social conflict, with poverty and lack of education among the causes that can cause young people to fall victim to drug abuse. in mexico, in 2010, about 7.5 million young people have no chance of being enrolled in the formal education system, and therefore no hope of a decent life. the european union and mexico should strengthen their dialogue on economic and social development, respect for human rights and the rule of law. thank you, sir.
author. − mr president, after 13 years without an execution in south korea, it is deeply sad that the constitutional court there ruled in favour of the death penalty a few weeks ago. the ruling states that the death penalty is a legal punishment that can deter crime for the public good. that is a commonly heard argument and merely a response to emotive situations in a given country at a certain time. it in fact means that the death penalty is being viewed as a preventive force in the hope that, when a criminal knows there is capital punishment, he or she will think twice about his or her acts. we all know that many studies have refuted that idea. even more important is the fact that an execution is irreversible; there is no way back. roman law at the time of justinian stated that it was better for a guilty person to go unpunished than for an innocent person to be deprived of their life. that was 15 centuries ago. since the south korean constitutional court itself recognised that the death penalty could be subject to errors and abuse, our concerns brought forward today might strengthen the democratic institutions of the republic of korea in the idea that this method of punishment should be abolished for good. since the republic of south korea acceded to the international covenant on civil and political rights in 1990, and is a signatory to most of the major human rights treaties, moving backwards would be very harmful to its international reputation.
in writing. – ‘every person shall have the right to life. if not, the killer unwittingly achieves a final and perverse moral victory by making the state a killer too, thus reducing social abhorrence at the conscious extinction of human beings’ (amnesty international, 1998). morality, deterrence and fairness are key in the debate on the death penalty. the ‘crime control’ approach seeks repression of criminal conduct, while the ‘human rights/due process’ model emphasises individual rights. the former considers the death penalty moral because the defendant took a life (retribution), a deterrent because those who might kill refrain from doing so fearing for their life, while fairness is unimportant or unproven. the latter model claims that death penalty is immoral because the state should not take a life, is not a deterrent – as shown by statistics – and is unfairly administered, sometimes people on death row being innocent and their trials involving irregularities. i believe in the human rights model, as reflected by the international community in hard and soft law, and by the increasing number of countries abolishing the death penalty. i urge the republic of korea to show a clear political will abolishing the death penalty, and, until then, to immediately adopt a moratorium on its application.
in writing. the eu guidelines on the death penalty date from 1998. also in that year, an unofficial moratorium on the death penalty began in south korea. in the meantime, the south korean parliament has discussed three proposals to outlaw the death penalty. last month, the constitutional court of this country by a narrow majority reaffirmed the constitutionality of the death penalty. i deplore this decision and hope that parliament will introduce a resolution to ban the death penalty. south korea's passage into the abolitionist ranks would send a strong signal to the entire asian continent.
the council of the european union welcomed the commission communication on europe 20-20. it is true, it is a very necessary document, but that is precisely why we must look at its contents very carefully. i think it lacks financial consistency. the council is required to ask the commission to clarify budgetary resources and their allocation to the key components of the budget. my view is that the budget cannot be drawn up before the reform of the common agricultural policy and the reform of cohesion policy. one of the major areas of development and stability in the union, namely infrastructure, both transport and energy, is completely lacking. developing transport and energy infrastructure in the european union and aligning it with neighbouring countries can be a powerful driver for sustainable growth and stable jobs, and can provide the european union with much-needed security in both energy and transport. i therefore call on the council to ask the commission to introduce these key areas in the eu 2020 strategy in the interest of european citizens.
in writing. one of the important items on the european council agenda concerns the eu 2020 strategy for jobs and growth. we need european policy coordination to respond to the challenges and needs of the moment, and to set clear long-term objectives. the sustainable development of the european economy must be a priority. the commission's new strategy for the next 10 years has five lines of action: creating new jobs, fighting poverty, reducing school drop-outs, investing in research and development and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the latest eu member states need the union's resources and support to achieve these ambitious goals. romania supports the 20-20-20 target of reducing carbon emissions by 20%, increasing the share of energy from renewable resources by 20% and increasing energy efficiency by 20%. a more ambitious 30-30-30 target that envisages reaching a 30% threshold in all three areas would be far too costly for my country. this would be an unrealistic target for many european countries.
in writing. in this period of economic and social crisis, coupled with the climate crisis, the eu has set out a new strategy for the next 10 years. the eu 2020 strategy must contribute to creating a more inclusive europe with an integrated and environmentally friendly economy. developing research and innovation must become a priority to combat the effects of climate change, to create green, smart jobs. the objectives set must therefore be binding in order to ensure sustainable growth, the development of a more inclusive labour market and decent living conditions for all citizens.
in writing. the spring european council has as its main theme the eu2020 strategy. earlier this year, the unemployment rate reached 10 percent, and in countries like spain and latvia, it was almost 20 percent. 67% of europeans consider job loss to be their main concern. the main concern of european leaders must be to preserve existing jobs and create new ones that will enable european citizens to live a decent life. this can only be achieved through substantial investment in economic and social development, transport and energy infrastructure, agriculture, research, education and health. this is why the european council must pay particular attention to the union's industrial policy. according to european statistics, industrial production fell by 2% in the euro area and by 0.2% in the eu27 in january 2010 compared to december 2009. at community level, industry generates 26.4% of gdp, but there are member states where industrial production contributes only 14% of gdp. the union must remain globally competitive and this requires that jobs and industrial production be kept within the union and not relocated to third countries.
i believe that the introduction of the european citizens' initiative into the provisions of the lisbon treaty is an important step in strengthening democracy in the european union. another important form of exercising and consolidating democracy is the referendum; and here, wanting to put a parenthesis, i would like to tell you that in romania, since 2004 until now, three referendums have been held, the last one being for the transition to unicameralism and the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. the turnout was 51%, and an overwhelming majority voted in favour of the proposal. i would like to welcome the commission's initiative to launch a wide-ranging public consultation on the regulation online. it will set out the number of states from which signatures must be collected, the minimum number of signatures from each country and the rules for verifying them. finally, i would like to ask the commission when it thinks this regulation will come into force, because i think it must be completed as soon as possible.
the possibility of a european citizens' initiative can help to generate public debate on european issues, leading to a genuine european public. representatives of civil society can channel in social issues that the parties present in the ep are unable or unwilling to raise. i would like to raise one of the issues that arise. i consider it important that the commission, in parallel with the prior notification of the proposed initiative, before the start of the collection of signatures or after a certain number of signatures have been collected, should give its opinion on the admissibility of the initiative in question on the basis of community law and its own competence. after a million signatures have been collected, a refusal on formal grounds or for lack of a legal basis could cast a very unfavourable light not only on the commission but also on the union as a whole.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i must express my deep satisfaction at the debate which has taken place, which was also at the request of the european parliament, which wanted this debate to be held on the citizens' initiative, and i think there was a series of speeches in which i saw absolute unanimity in support of this being a priority of the spanish presidency of the council and, moreover, support for it to develop rapidly. in this connection i think that the announcement by vice-president šefčovič that the text of the regulation would be presented on 31 march was also very well received by all of you. i thank the commission once again for the speed, interest and enthusiasm with which it has dealt with this matter and for the fact that we can therefore, from this moment on, start this legislative procedure which i hope will end as soon as possible with the launching of this legislative initiative which almost all those who have spoken consider necessary, urgent and essential. i think that this can also be interpreted as support from all the parliamentary groups and all the members, including those who, like mr kamall, in his very unusual speech, have supported the popular legislative initiative because, in their opinion, it will weaken the european union. mr. kamall is not here... i am sorry that you are not here, i am sorry to give you bad news and to discourage you, because this initiative is going to strengthen the european union, it is not going to weaken it at all; it is going to strengthen it, because it is an initiative which, in short, reinforces the two essential concepts of the european union, namely democracy and citizenship. these are the two great political pillars of the european union: democracy and citizenship. this initiative is in some ways an attempt to compensate for the paradox we are experiencing: a european union which is becoming more and more powerful - the european parliament is proof of this - a european union which is becoming more and more influential; which is increasingly affecting the daily lives of citizens; and which, however, has no correspondence in the debate taking place in each of the countries. it is a paradox that affects democracy itself. this citizens' initiative will extend a set of debates of a european dimension, as mr méndez de vigo said, on european issues, not on localist issues, because it requires bringing people from different countries into contact, so it clearly has a european sense. this is certainly a way of strengthening democracy and also citizenship or the european demos to which president casini referred, who is also the chairman of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, which is the committee that will be dealing with this initiative. the citizenship which mr ramón jáuregui considered so important, which so much represents the roots of the european union, or mr sógor, who also referred to it, or mr häfner, who also referred to it. and also, as mr kastler said, this initiative must be implemented. it is an appeal to the citizens, because european civic identity develops when it is put into practice; not simply when you have a right, but when that right is put into practice, exercised. that is what i think is important to happen from the moment this citizens' initiative is in force. i would like to thank the commission and the european parliament again, which i am sure will deal with this matter rigorously, thoroughly and swiftly. mr iacolino referred to a particularly rapid procedure so that we can see the light of this initiative as soon as possible and mrs băsescu also referred in her speech to this speed with which we want to see the initiative in motion.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank diego for an excellent summary of today’s debate. i would like to thank all of you for your support and positive expectations linked to the citizens’ initiative. i can assure you that i will be happy to present to you the proposal at the earliest convenience after its adoption. because of time constraints and the fact that the proposal is not yet finalised, we could not go into details today. however, i am very thankful for your views and opinions because they really reflected the nature and the quality of the views and opinions we have been collecting in the preparations of the european citizens’ initiative. there are many things on which we all agree. the first one is, clearly, transparency. i can assure you that we are looking for a solution which would guarantee, through the registration of the initiative by the commission, that we would know who the organisers are and how they are financed. we would have a very strong indication whether the initiative is really genuine, whether it is really a citizens’ initiative and whether it is really a european initiative. i think it must include all these elements in order to make good and successful use of this new instrument. we all agree on practicality. we would like to have a system which is user-friendly. we would like to create a system where the citizens would not have the feeling that they have to go through a very burdensome procedure to collect or to give their signatures. we are looking into these opportunities and of course we are looking into ways in which modern it technology – so characteristic of our century – can be used. it is clear that there are different systems for the verification of signatures in the member states. one of the clear responses we gathered from the public consultation was that the citizens would prefer having a certain uniformity when it comes to the verification and the collection of signatures. at the same time, we got the clear message from the member states that we should look for a system which would not be too burdensome or too complicated for the national authorities, because it would be the member states who would have to verify that the signatures collected for the citizens’ initiative are real and genuine. i listened very carefully to your calls for having very clear procedures once the initiative is successful and once the signatures are collected. i would like to assure you that we will definitely do that. in the proposal, there will be very clear deadlines – when, how and in what time frame the commission will have to react when the citizens’ initiative is successful. as you have listened to the opinions here, you will agree with me that the most difficult issue we have to tackle is the issue of admissibility – how we can find a solution which would avoid the frustration of citizens, how we can protect eu values, and how we can keep this institute of the european citizens’ initiative serious and real. i can assure you that there are no easy answers to these questions and to these slightly contradictory requests. the commission is looking into the option which would defend european values and human rights from the outset. at the same time, we would like to have a clear view that the proposals for the citizens’ initiative have a genuine potential to be successful. we would like to avoid possible abuse where we might get proposals for the initiative every second week on nonsensical issues on which there would be an obligation to pronounce a view on admissibility, and then for it to be appealed to the court – initiatives whose only reason for proposal would be the self-promotion of the potential organisers for negative political agenda. we have also to bear this in mind. i hope that we will find the right balance on how to keep this admissibility check in adequate proportion. to give a short answer to vice-president durant’s question concerning communication with civil society, i think that the european citizens’ initiative is the best answer. we have a very good structured dialogue organised by the european economic and social committee and i had a very lengthy debate with them just two weeks ago. i think that strong and wide public consultations are taking place through the smart-legislating proposals. we will widen this and use it even more in the future. in view of the time let me conclude by saying that i am really looking forward to being back soon with a proposal. i look forward to our mutual discussion on this issue and what i hope will be very dynamic and speedy procedures so that we can have this very important instrument approved as soon as possible.
in writing. the new legislative framework on the citizens' initiative is undoubtedly welcome. it's long been the case that citizens have such a tool. i join those who have spoken today and asked that the rules for implementing the citizens' initiative be simple, accessible, easy to understand and involve as little bureaucracy as possible. only then will the citizens' initiative be a real tool for europeans to make their voices heard. only then will the eu be closer to its citizens and more democratic.
mr. kaczmarek was talking earlier about the 2008 protests. two years have passed and we still do not know how many people have been detained, how many people have been arrested, how many have been released as a result. we know what these people were doing; they were able to demonstrate peacefully, waving the tibetan flag or handing out pamphlets. it's a shame that two years after these protests we don't know exactly how many of these people were involved and punished by the communist party. furthermore, the chinese communist party's interference with the independent functioning of the judiciary by calling for the arrest and swift sentencing of individuals is worrying. the national security argument cannot be invoked to override fundamental civil rights. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress the need for a common european position on human rights and the protection of minorities in china. if we don't have that position, we know what happens, we've seen it in the past, the communist leaders in china trying to intimidate the member states of the union one by one. finally, i would like to reiterate the position i expressed at the january plenary session, namely that the human rights dialogue is an instrument which has proved ineffective, insufficient and i believe that this problem must be addressed at the summits; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i agree with the high representative on this.
in writing. on march 10, 1959, the tibetan people defended their leader in a revolutionary mood, but their initial enthusiasm was mercilessly broken by the peaceful liberation of the chinese communist regime, which claimed thousands of civilian lives. the exiled dalai lama has continued his half-century of peaceful protest, and tibetans have not been able to commemorate this day freely. in eastern europe, where i come from, the story is familiar. although we seem to have gotten rid of the similar practices of communist regimes, i think we should not forget the lessons: in the history of every people there are events that should not and cannot be forbidden to be remembered. there's more to this than that. as a representative of a national minority community, i sympathize with the plight of the tibetan people and i ask my fellow members to vote in support of tibet's peaceful efforts towards self-determination.
i take the floor today before you and my colleagues to share my view that europe needs a new, much more integrated strategy to tackle the problem of violence against women. in more and more european countries, this issue has been tackled bipartisan by parties with different views on society in general. that's because the problem of domestic violence transcends the realm of ideology and enters directly and immediately into the human and political vision of a more just and balanced society. i want to emphasize the need for action to prevent and psychological violence against women. recent studies have shown that this type of violence always foreshadows physical violence. i would like to welcome the fact that the spanish presidency has placed the fight against various forms of violence against women among the political priorities of the union, but the measures must continue. the creation of a european observatory on gender-based violence, the establishment of the protection order and the establishment of an emergency appeal are intended to limit the phenomenon in the union and to support the fight against violence beyond the union.
the european union has very strict food safety rules, and manufacturers are forced to invest a lot of money to comply with these rules. however, more than 75 percent of all chickens slaughtered in the european union are contaminated with bacteria, says a recent study by the european food safety authority. salmonella and campylobacter, two of the most toxic bacteria, are present on the carcasses of three out of four chickens raised on european farms. naturally, such studies, once in the media, cause concern among consumers. in this context, we must ask ourselves two questions: first, what can we do further to ensure that europeans have access to safe and quality food; and second, whether the rules currently in force, even if strict and, in parenthesis, very bureaucratic, are not the most appropriate?
madam president, 20 years ago the romanians were dying for freedom, including in education, which until then was subject to tight political control. as a result of their sacrifice, universities have gained their freedom too, which they have enjoyed ever since. it would therefore be sadly ironic if the current attempt by the romanian ministry of education to speedily pass new legislation which practically eliminates that freedom and opens the door to the repoliticisation of the system were successful. for instance, in the draft, the rectors elected would have to be confirmed by the minister, who is himself a political appointee, and universities would be forced to merge on arbitrary criteria, or could even be closed and their assets repossessed. as a professor myself, and as an mep, i consider it my duty to my fellow professors in this house to expose such intended undemocratic practices that are openly opposed to the lisbon strategy on education and cannot be tolerated in an eu member state.
the 2011 budget must take account of the union's new competences, but also of the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. our priority must be to preserve existing jobs and create new ones. i believe that the union must invest in a smart and ambitious industrial policy. it is not permissible that in 2010 in strong member states industry should only provide 14% of gross domestic product. the 2011 budget should therefore take into account the resetting of budgetary priorities that member states can only achieve in 2010 when the 2007-2013 financial perspective is revised midway. these priorities should cover transport infrastructure, energy efficiency, industrial policy and research, agriculture, education and health. we expect the commission to come forward this year with a firm proposal for a european fund dedicated to the development of transport infrastructure, the community contribution to which will also be reflected in the 2011 budget.
i call for the 2011 eu budget to better reflect and support youth policy. young people need to be supported at both community and national level. in this regard, in romania, one of the projects through which the government supports young people is the construction of 100,000 homes for them over the next three years. i also welcome the european commission's target of reaching 3 000 000 erasmus student grants by 2012. but it is also very important to increase funding for erasmus mundus scholarships. this will allow even more students and researchers from third countries - and here specifically including from the republic of moldova - to study in the european union. as a young mep, i support the erasmus - the first workplace for young people's access to the labour market initiative. finally, i would like to thank the european commission for the speed with which it approved the financing of four energy projects in which romania is also involved.
in writing. this year, the budgetary procedure will undergo the biggest reform since the introduction of the multiannual financial frameworks in 1988. in parallel with the reform of the budgetary procedure, stricto sensu, the entire budgetary framework will have to be adapted to the new institutional realities introduced by the lisbon treaty and in particular the european external action service. i believe, however, that the main objective of the future budget should be to support the policies of the new europe 2020 agenda. the only chance this project has of succeeding is if we secure the necessary funding, otherwise this agenda will end up like its predecessor, the lisbon strategy, far from whatever goal it set. in this respect, i would like to join the rapporteur in stressing the importance of youth, education, research and innovation policies; these are, in my view, the cornerstones on which we must build both the 2011 budget and our vision for the future.
in writing. i would like to add to what the rapporteur and my colleagues said in the debate on the priorities for the 2011 budget. as the european commission announced in january, there are bold plans for the galileo project. the first services of this system will be launched in early 2014: the open service, the regulated public service and the search and rescue. safety-of-life and commercial service will also be tested from 2014. i remind you that galileo is vital to the future of europe's high-tech industry. it will generate new markets and allow europe to become a global technological competitor. ten-t policy has so far prepared this major european project which, once operational, will allow much more efficient use of transport infrastructure. in conclusion, i believe that galileo must receive adequate funding from the european union budget in the future to carry out this ambitious project.
in writing. the circumstances in which the 2010 and 2011 budgets will be adopted are exceptional and highly challenging. for these reasons, the optimal solution for the successful implementation of the lisbon treaty must be found, which is in itself a major financial challenge. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments. parliament needs to engage in an open discussion on the expenditure ceiling for heading 5 for 2011. a balance must be struck between securing funding for all needs and maintaining budgetary discipline, even tightening spending, to comply with the multiannual financial framework. firstly, we need to standardise administrative expenditure by including it in full under this heading, and to revise the expenditure ceiling accordingly and realistically. it is essential in particular to cooperate at interinstitutional level for the exchange of good practices and the further exploration of possibilities to make them more effective. in addition, particular importance should be attached to monitoring and analysing a range of areas with direct budgetary implications and all means of allocating and saving resources should be identified.
in writing. next year will be the first year of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, which could mark a new stage in the development of the european union. consequently, the financial year 2011 will be of great importance for the financial planning of the following years. budgetary priorities should reflect the european union's response to the challenges of the global crisis. the europe 2020 strategy is a key component in this respect. however, the priorities set out in the 2011 draft budget should not result in any change to the eu's basic policies. cohesion and structural policies and agricultural policy will continue to require full attention, as will aid to smes. the latter is essential if the eu is to become a sustainable and competitive economy. we must not forget for a moment that these policies are an expression of the solidarity which is the fundamental value of the european project.
first of all, congratulations to the rapporteur on his approach to the quality of agricultural products. the market demands are diverse and increasingly numerous. in the european union, the most important issues are food hygiene and safety, health and nutritional value, and certain societal requirements. consumers are also increasingly aware of agriculture's contribution to sustainability, climate change, food security, biodiversity, animal welfare and water scarcity. in the face of these new commercial challenges, the european farmer's main asset is quality. the european union has the quality advantage, and this is due to a very high level of safety, ensured by the legislation in force, along the entire food chain to which farmers and producers have contributed. there are, however, a few aspects that can enhance the quality. i believe that the european union has a duty to promote quality products, but also to act in favour of their protection at international level. in this context, i believe that stricter controls should be applied to organic products from third countries, so as to ensure fair competition between european and third country organic products.
a quality policy for agricultural products can be a solution for many farmers. for many households, focusing on quality rather than quantity can bring long-term benefits and therefore the european union needs coherent policies in this area that, at the same time, ensure that european farmers are able to compete on the international market. in these circumstances, the scotta report is welcome, as is the package announced by commissioner ciolos. at the same time, to achieve our quality objectives, we will need something else, a future strong common agricultural policy with a strong budget. a policy on the quality of agricultural products and a reduction in the budget for european agriculture are two incompatible concepts. we also need sufficient tools for farmers to develop their quality policy and, last but not least, equal opportunities for farmers in the western and eastern member states.
g20 leaders agreed in pittsburgh in september 2009 that the priority of economic recovery plans must be to preserve existing jobs and create new ones. despite international monetary fund forecasts of 3% growth, oecd and ilo forecasts show that the unemployment rate will continue to rise at an accelerated rate through the first half of 2011 inclusive. the economic and financial crisis has hit european businesses hard, but also implicitly member states' budgets. g20 labour and social protection ministers should call for support for businesses in difficulty as a result of the economic crisis to be extended until the unemployment rate falls again. i also think that they should find ways to support both public servants and publicly paid staff - teachers, doctors - who lose their jobs as a result of cuts in the budgets of public interest institutions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome this opportunity on world tuberculosis day to underline the commission’s commitment to addressing the challenges caused by this disease. we had believed that our successes in past decades had eliminated the threats related to this serious public health concern. however, for too long, we have mistakenly lowered the guard against tuberculosis. in 2008 the european centre for disease prevention and control reported around 83 000 cases and close to 6 000 deaths due to tuberculosis in the european union and efta countries. this amounts to about 16 deaths a day. this is simply unacceptable and requires action by all concerned sectors and stakeholders. it is unacceptable because tuberculosis is a preventable and curable disease that should not lead to such dramatic consequences. tuberculosis is a cross-sector issue and it is linked to many of the public health challenges we face in the european union, including the spread of antimicrobial resistance, the lack of new effective tools to diagnose and treat tuberculosis, the steep rise of co-infections such as with hiv, and the inequalities, with tuberculosis disproportionally affecting the most vulnerable groups. the commission has launched a number of initiatives over the past years to strengthen capacities to tackle tuberculosis. in 2000 tuberculosis was included in the list of priority diseases under eu-wide surveillance. in this context, the commission supported several projects that have helped coordinate the surveillance of tuberculosis in the 53 countries of the who european region. this has improved our shared knowledge and monitoring of the epidemiological situation. in addition, through its research framework programmes, the commission supports the development of new treatments, vaccines, drugs and diagnostic tools against tuberculosis. since 2002 more than eur 124 million has been allocated to these efforts. but, as tuberculosis is not constrained by borders, we have to support countries beyond the european union. the commission supports developing countries in their tuberculosis control programmes through the european programme for action to confront hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis through external action (2007-2011). the main channel for financing this support is the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria, to which the commission has contributed eur 870 million since 2002, with an annual contribution that amounts to eur 100 million since 2008. in addition, it supports clinical trials and capacity building in sub-saharan africa through the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership (edctp). finally, the setting-up of the european centre for disease prevention and control has enabled us to raise our efforts against tuberculosis to a new level. in march 2007, following a request from the commission, the centre developed an action plan to fight tuberculosis in the eu. this addresses the key cross-sectoral challenges we are facing today in tuberculosis prevention and control and strengthening epidemiological surveillance: ensuring prompt and quality tb care for all, developing new tools for diagnosis and treatment, decreasing the burden of tuberculosis and hiv co-infection, and addressing the threat of multi-drug resistance. however the commission cannot succeed in this challenge alone. the contribution from civil society to reach out to the most vulnerable, and the member states’ commitment are key towards achieving our objective to support the global fight against this disease.
on behalf of the epp group. "the cause of death in the age of antibiotics", a group of researchers called tuberculosis, a term that many of us thought had disappeared from the vocabulary, but which still kills many people. tuberculosis is the seventh leading cause of death in the world. unfortunately, the present period is marked by an increase in the number of cases of tuberculosis that are resistant to standard drug treatments. worldwide, there were 9.4 million new tb cases and 1.8 million deaths in 2008. every second, someone somewhere in the world is infected with the tuberculosis bacillus. we need to hear these figures spoken as clearly as possible in a major forum of the european union, so that we can all better understand that this disease is still eating away at our societies, still killing large numbers of european citizens. i come from a country that unfortunately ranks first in the european union in the sad rankings of tuberculosis. although there has been a slight downward trend in recent years and an increase in the rate of cure for chemoresistant tuberculosis, the absolute figures are still worrying and the reality they reflect is dramatic. we need a coherent, integrated and well-planned fight to bring this scourge under control. we need to continue, at eu level, the work that has been done so far to ensure that we raise the level of disease detection, the level of access to appropriate treatment, the quality of treatment monitoring, the quality of healthcare provided to patients in all member states. we need all governments to recognise the importance of this fight and to work as closely as possible with the social partners, so that fewer and fewer europeans suffer from this disease that we thought was exiled in past centuries. and most of all, we need to fight this fight together, as a family, overcoming our differences, helping each other to overcome this difficulty. after all, we are the european union and our strength lies in our unity.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur for this very comprehensive report. as rightly emphasised in this report, developing countries have been affected by the crisis much harder than initially expected. in fact, they have been hit through several transmission channels, such as volatile commodity prices, declining export revenues and tourism earnings, as well as falling capital flows and remittances. one common feature is the increase in financing needs of many countries. many developing countries were often obliged to cut social expenditure (notably in nutrition, health and education), entailing severe social and political consequences and threatening not only the achievement of the mdgs by 2015, but also undermining past progress observed in recent years. despite some first signs of global recovery, developing countries, particularly in sub-saharan africa, will certainly lag behind. the eu has shown leadership and unity through a joint eu response to the crisis framed within the global response, namely within the united nations, the g20 and g8. we have acted quickly and efficiently to translate pledges into concrete commitments to help developing countries cope with the crisis. last spring, the eu adopted a set of comprehensive, timely, targeted and coordinated measures to cushion the human impact of the crisis, boost economic growth in developing countries and protect the most vulnerable. the eu response comprises not only the community response but also the eu member states’ response (their respective bilateral responses as well as their contributions to the resources of the international financial institutions as called upon by the g20). moreover, close collaboration with the world bank and the imf has enabled us to ensure the consistency of our respective analyses and the complementarity of our assistance. as highlighted in the report, the commission has set up and is currently implementing a very concrete and short-term ad hoc mechanism, named the vulnerability flex, to support the most vulnerable countries with poor resilience capacity, with a view to enabling them to maintain priority spending, notably in the social sectors. other measures include reallocations following ad hoc country reviews and the advanced mid-term review of the 10th european development fund, which is currently ongoing, support under the traditional flex instrument, frontloading of aid where feasible, etc. official development assistance (oda) has played, and will continue to play, a critical role in supporting our partners’ efforts in coping with the crisis. in this context, the commission welcomes your support in urging member states to stay committed to achieving by 2015 the 0.7% oda/gni target. other donors should take similar ambitious targets for oda increases, and we must call upon the entire donor community to live up to their commitments in terms of aid volumes and effectiveness. on 21 april, the commission will publish its yearly spring development package of proposals to member states. this year, the focus will be on the actions that remain necessary to achieve the mdgs. the package will adopt a comprehensive approach and define an action plan for accelerated progress towards the mdgs. it will also provide an opportunity to make an ambitious eu contribution to the forthcoming un high-level mdg review in september. in doing so, the eu will remain credible about its commitments and continue to play a leading role in international development.
the economic and financial crisis has also hit moldova, a developing country, hard. the country's economy contracted by 9% last year according to imf estimates, and the unemployment rate was over 6%. direct investment must be stimulated. i should mention that moldova has hired nine high-ranking european advisers for one year to assist the main ministries in chisinau. given that we speak the same language, our neighbours across the prut can benefit from romania's expertise in absolutely all areas. it is necessary to reduce the cost of money transfers that migrants make from the countries where they work. the commitment of the g8 leaders to reduce them from 10% to 5% over the next five years is a first step in this direction. i would like to welcome today the award of record financial support to moldova of $2.6 billion for the period 2011-2013. the agreement was reached today by prime minister vlad filat in brussels at the donors' conference.
in writing. developing countries have ended up as the main victims of the financial crisis, despite initial predictions that developed countries would be the hardest hit. the theory that developing countries are insufficiently connected to the world economy to be seriously affected by the financial market crisis has been refuted by reality. we are seeing the deepening of the crisis in many developing countries, with unprecedented unemployment rates, exponential increases in public debt and budget deficits. and that's while developed countries, which didn't feel the crisis very strongly or had effective tools at their disposal to mitigate its impact, moved on to economic growth, albeit timidly. the economic crisis is already directly affecting the population and unemployment is increasing in developing countries. the economic recovery efforts of countries still feeling the effects of the crisis could affect entire social groups, but the recovery measures can only be painful. eu funding programmes are the most comprehensive and complex financial assistance in the world and affected member states must benefit as much as possible from the money allocated to situations of restriction of economic activity with social effects.
the major cause of the crisis is the mafia. i'm going to give you a few examples from my country, romania, and please believe me that as a writer and historian, who runs a daily newspaper and a weekly magazine, i know exactly what i'm talking about. since 1990, some 6 000 enterprises worth €700 billion have been fraudulently privatised. unfortunately, of this money, only 7 billion euros have been collected so far, so 1%. in many cases, it was not even privatization, but the transfer of values from the property of the romanian state to the property of other states, that is, nationalization. this is no longer a market economy, but a jungle economy. the situation is repeated in several balkan countries where the local mafia has joined forces with the transnational mafia in an organized crime cartel. just as it was 100 years ago, the balkan peninsula is sitting on a powder keg. the flame of social protest can spread rapidly from greece to the other countries in the region. if in the 20th century we talked about exporting revolution, in the 21st century we can talk about exporting bankruptcy. hunger is the most powerful electoral agent in history. we need to shift the focus from fighting corruption, which is an abstraction, to fighting the corrupt. the mood of the population is getting worse and worse and if we fail to stop the looting of our countries, then the generous project of the european union will collapse like a sand castle. there is a salvation, however: at such a historic crossroads, radical solutions are needed. the mafia doesn't have to be under control, the mafia has to be underground.
it is not surprising that the core of the ecb's annual report is made up of exceptional measures that the ecb was forced to adopt in crisis conditions. in this context, i consider it appropriate that the european central bank should constantly increase its liquidity provision to euro area banks, but we must not forget that the member states outside the euro area have also been severely affected by the crisis and that there is a need for intervention by the central bank through liquidity-enhancing measures in this area as well. the increase in budget deficits, public debt and the unemployment rate among young people under 25 is also being recorded in most eu member states. the stability and growth pact is experiencing an identity crisis, losing credibility and effectively applying its principles is becoming impossible. i believe that there is a need for less automation and uniformity in the pact, for an approach that takes account of the circumstances of each member state, where the emphasis is much more on the long-term sustainability of public finances and less on the public deficit. the main purpose of the pact was preventive; it sought multilateral monitoring of budgetary developments through an early warning system. i therefore believe that, in the spirit of my colleague scicluna's report, it is absolutely necessary to set up a european systemic risk committee to fulfil the objective of early warning against systemic risks or imbalances that threaten the financial markets. this financial crisis, and its recent sharpening in general, should prompt a rapid clarification of the mechanisms for mutual support at union level, as well as a strengthening of the instruments for coordination between member states in support of common economic governance. one of the major lessons of the crisis is the need for increased fiscal responsibility and, by implication, for economic oversight to maintain budgetary balance.
during the crisis, it was seen that fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates hit a single currency, which acted as a real shield for the euro area. the single currency has not been a solution to all internal and external imbalances that have arisen, but the advantages offered by access to the european central bank's liquidity for national financial institutions and the elimination of the risk of exchange rate fluctuations have increased interest in it among non-euro area member states. the effort made by these countries, by improving their own economies and fiscal policies to adopt the single currency, should be appreciated and i call on the commission and the european central bank to encourage more the enlargement of the euro area in the shortest possible time, in order to be more protected from the effects of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. – there are lessons to be learnt from the current eurozone crisis. the economic crisis is also responsible for the eurozone difficulties, but i believe there are also structural weaknesses of emu that we should address in order to avoid future crises. for the ecb to be able to take efficient action supporting employment and growth, we have to provide it with the necessary tools. the ecb does not have the same tools as the fed, which is why it could not have an active monetary policy supporting growth. the ecb is bound by its main objective of ensuring price stability, which prevents it from efficiently stimulating growth. i also believe that we need greater coordination of economic and fiscal policies, so that we avoid unfortunate situations like the greek one. better coordination would enhance euro-area stability. the sgp needs to be respected strictly, but i think it should be revised. the preventive arm should be strengthened. the punitive arm is not an efficient one since paying fees only increases budgetary deficits and prevents compliance with the rules. on the other hand sanctions should not be decided by the council, because member states will always be reluctant to punish each other.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2009 annual declaration on the euro area and public finances. i support the proposal in the report that the eurogroup should facilitate the entry into the euro area of those member states which are willing and able to do so. i believe that the successful development of economic and monetary union requires improved regulation and supervision of financial markets and the limitation of external and internal deficits. we also need to pay particular attention to fiscal discipline issues. the future eu 2020 strategy must take into account policies on job creation and sustainable development, so as to prevent the triggering of new economic crises. at the same time, it is necessary for member states and the european commission to cooperate in order to reduce fiscal imbalances. strengthening public finances is a key condition for ensuring sustainable economic growth. after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european commission will have a more important role in monitoring economic developments in the member states. under article 121, the european commission will be able to issue warnings to countries that do not comply with the broad economic policy guidelines.
in writing. − the appointment of a professional of vitor constancio's stature as vice-governor of the european central bank will add value to the economic and financial policies promoted by this institution. vitor constancio takes over as ecb vice-governor at a difficult time for the euro area, but his views on how the european union should respond to the greek crisis show that he has the vision and the know-how to protect the european currency. mr. constancio has an impressive business card, and the fact that he's the head of the portuguese national bank confirms him as a professional. which can only remind me of the recent episode of the political appointment of a vice-governor at the national bank of romania, far from mr. constancio's professional example. fortunately, the national bank of romania has a lot of professionals, and its course during the economic crisis was impeccable. and yet, national banks should be the last place where appointments are made on political grounds and not on grounds of competence. mr constancio's hearing in the economic affairs committee of the european parliament was demanding, but mr constancio never wavered, maintaining his consistency of opinion and demonstrating that his vision of the future of the euro area is sound.
in writing. − i voted against mr fazakas because in his official autobiography he withheld the information that, during the communist dictatorship, he was a secret agent of the hungarian state secret police from 1976 until the collapse of the regime in 1989. according to official documents from the historical archives of state security services of hungary, mr fazakas was recruited in 1976 by the state security service, the communist secret police, ‘on a patriotic basis’ (i.e. he entered the service voluntarily) for activities of counter-espionage.
in writing. − the vote in favour of mr fazakas is disappointing. it sets a serious precedent. i voted together with the epp against mr fazakas’ confirmation as a member of the court of auditors. this was no ordinary vote. mr fazakas is suspected of being an ex-collaborator of the communist secret services. the hungarian press produced a document regarding this. a number of opinions were heard that opposed any ‘punishment’ against mr fazakas. they asked for the past not to be revived. this is wrong. the past is not dead. tens of millions of eastern europeans still live a life troubled by the communist horrors. if the past is dead, then there is no sense in leading a life guided by norms and values. this would be a recipe for the politics of diminished responsibility. public office would lose dignity. anyone, however corrupt or immoral, could stand for public office. if there still are politicians unaware of the communist record in eastern europe, this does not qualify them for an informed opinion. the perpetrators of the communist indignity should not be part of a democratic order they tried to suppress. mr fazakas hid his past and lied when asked about it. this lack of honesty should not be rewarded.
in writing. − the european union is currently aware of the problems of the roma minority, as is shown by the number of reports discussed, including substantial funding for roma social inclusion programmes, which, however, did not have the expected effects. we are talking about a minority of 10-12 million people, at european level, who have lived their lives by their own rules for hundreds of years and who find it natural to behave in this way, isolated from the majority. in romania, the roma minority numbers, according to some estimates, over 2 million people. more numerous than the hungarian minority and, logically, some would say, stronger. and yet, the roma minority in romania has not been able to identify a leader to represent them in the public arena or in parliament. perhaps because of this, national social inclusion programs have all been total failures. today, given the spread of the roma population across several european countries, as well as their known propensity for migration and criminality (which has led to the application of the label of gypsy to many other citizens), the solution of the social inclusion problem has become a community one. perhaps where the member states have failed (and are often criticized for doing so), the union will succeed.
in writing. − in all countries with a large roma population, there are roma integration policies, but these are only implemented sectorally, and others do not take into account specificities, which ultimately makes them inoperative. an analysis of all successful practices in integrating roma is needed to finally draw up and adopt a european strategy for this category, which is known to represent the largest minority in the eu. the main emphasis must continue to be on education, children's schooling, vocational training, phased integration into the labour market, women's empowerment, the efficiency of the social security system, etc. here too, much closer cooperation is needed between the european commission and the governments of the member states on the financing of projects through the structural funds, the cohesion funds and specific programmes, which focus more on individual empowerment than on the traditional hierarchy. a broad information campaign aimed at the public and the roma population, which would combat the feeling of exclusion of roma from european society and place a strong emphasis on the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination, is, in my view, an essential component of this synergy of community action.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on roma integration because i believe that this european minority needs concrete policies and their rapid implementation. although we are halfway through the decade for roma inclusion, issues related to education, employment, regional development, etc. persist and are even becoming more acute in some member states. i agree with the need to redefine the principles, but i think we should rather build a transversal, horizontal strategy that addresses the problems of this minority in an integrated way, rather than exclusively. the resolution calls on the new commissioners to prioritise roma issues in their portfolios and not to continue the policy of the past, which has been rhetorical but lacking in real action. our expectations of the cordoba summit are high, but even higher are the needs of the roma, who expect results in terms of respect for their rights and anti-discrimination policies.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution in the belief that in the immediate future, concrete measures to improve the situation of the roma population will be translated into practice and will not remain at the declarative level. the european structural funds represent a huge opportunity for the social inclusion of the roma population, but unfortunately its exploitation has been hampered by methodological and content issues. applied to romania, the need for a diversified approach to employment issues was identified in the context of the osce measures for the roma population. the traditional measures for vocational retraining, counselling and information for roma beneficiaries must also take account of their cultural specificity. although beneficiaries in rural areas are the most affected, there has been no programme of any kind for roma communities in european rural development programmes, and roma are not among the target groups favoured by such funding programmes. the initiation of programmes to develop agricultural enterprises, the stimulation of the establishment of livestock farms, together with a set of incentives such as subsidies for employers in this field, are solutions to be considered for the integration of the roma population into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the second european roma summit because i believe that the fight against discrimination against roma, who constitute a pan-european community, requires a community approach. we express concern about discrimination against roma in education, housing, inclusion in the labour market and equal access to healthcare and other public services. we condemn the recent escalation of hostility against roma (roma-phobia) in several eu member states, expressed periodically in the form of hate speech and attacks against the roma population. we again call on the commission to adopt a horizontal approach to the roma issue and to develop further proposals to achieve a coherent policy at european level on the social inclusion of roma. in this context, we call on the commission to prepare a european roma strategy in collaboration with the member states, which will better coordinate and promote efforts to improve the situation of the roma population. i also hope that member states will make more effective use of the various existing instruments to combat roma exclusion, such as the allocation of up to 2% of the erdf for housing for marginalised communities or the existing options under the esf.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european commission's budget report because i believe it is important for the eu to have a balanced and realistic budget that effectively meets the expectations of citizens who want to overcome the current economic crisis, good-paying jobs and a more secure future. i believe that financial support for smes should be a european priority, because smes play a decisive role in providing many jobs and in the development of regions and rural areas. i also believe that youth is extremely important both for the present and for the future of the eu, and this should be reflected in budgetary priorities. youth is at the heart of european social and inclusion strategies. the innovation capacity of young people is a key resource for development and economic growth, on which the eu should build. i strongly believe that investing in youth and education means investing in the present and the future, as underlined in the eu youth strategy. i appreciate that youth policy must also take into account the preparation of young people for the labour market in schools and universities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on the priorities for the 2011 budget section iii commission, thus reaffirming that the priority of the political leaders of the european union and the member states must be to preserve existing jobs and create new ones that allow european citizens to live a decent life. the commission's communication 'europe 2020: a european strategy for smart, green and inclusive growth' is the basis for a comprehensive debate on the eu's economic and social strategy for the years ahead. i also voted in favour of amendment no 5, given that unemployment is a central theme in the current discussions and that in order to fully address the problem of high and rising unemployment, the eu needs to implement an ambitious social agenda. the union needs to invest mainly in research and in transport and energy infrastructure if it is to remain globally competitive. the member states and the union must also invest in education and youth development. therefore, programmes such as erasmus, and in particular the erasmus component for young entrepreneurs, must be a priority to be reflected in the 2011 budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i support better protection of european products worldwide. through geographical indications, agricultural products gain more credibility and visibility in the eyes of consumers, while ensuring a competitive environment for producers. at the same time, they guarantee the protection of intellectual property rights for products. the geographical indication system is well established in the european union and in many non-eu countries such as the united states, australia and new zealand. unfortunately, there are still some of the union's trading partners who do not have legislation in this area. as a result, european products are not well protected within the national systems of these countries, and there is a risk of counterfeiting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 3 because it refers to a point in the motion for a resolution which could be interpreted as calling for a return to the standardisation of agricultural products (the shape and size of fruit and vegetables).
in writing. − i voted for this report because the strengthening of quality policy at eu level is an important incentive for european agricultural producers to step up their efforts in terms of quality, food safety and environmental protection. i believe that this policy can bring a considerable improvement in the added value of european agri-food production in an increasingly globalised market. but at the same time, better information is needed for citizens through appropriate information campaigns and the promotion of voluntary labels on other production methods that respect the environment and animals, such as 'integrated production', 'pastoral farming' and 'mountain agriculture'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation, as they are the most affected by the economic and financial crisis. we note with great concern that developing countries are estimated to face a financial deficit of over usd 300 billion in 2010 and that the increasing budgetary difficulties in the most vulnerable countries are jeopardising the functioning and development of vital areas such as education, health, infrastructure and social protection worth over usd 11,5 billion. developing countries are also the most affected by the effects of climate change. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to support all actions to combat climate change and to accelerate, in this context, the transfer of relevant technologies to developing countries. we also voted for the member states and the commission to pay particular attention to the promotion and protection of decent work and measures to combat gender discrimination and child labour, following to this end the recommendations of the international labour organisation, whose role needs to be strengthened.
in writing. the euro area has been facing a major economic crisis for the past two years. the ecb's policy coherence and consistent, albeit relevant, measures have minimised the impact of the crisis in the euro area. the exception of greece was made possible by systemic errors, perpetuated over time and kept hidden. the impact of the economic crisis was substantially greater in the non-euro area of the european union. romania is an example of this where, despite current sound economic measures, the impact of the crisis is large. the effects would have been much smaller if there had been fiscal responsibility, and romania would not have entered the first year of the crisis, 2009, with a budget deficit of 5.4% when, a year earlier, it was reporting record economic growth. while the eurozone states have been reporting the overrun of their economies for the past six months, romania is only now seeing the first, rather timid, signs of economic recovery, but this cannot be sustained without drastically reducing the budget deficit, so as not to end up in the situation of greece. the sanctioning mechanisms of the member states, in the event of non-compliance with the vital macroeconomic indicators, should be used without delay.
unfortunately, many of us are unaware that a new specter is haunting europe, namely the specter of populism. we forget that it, as a form of political government, can be one of the causes of the moral crisis that we all talk about as support for the economic crisis. but that's up to us and the political parties we belong to. mr president van rompuy, you spoke of budgetary orthodoxy. in history, too often, too much rule, too little rule, can create deficits. i think we could be much more flexible and we could rethink the stability pact because we don't have a vision of the future european model. it ignores a reality, it ignores a demographic situation that we are facing and that we have not heard about in agenda 2020, and i think this should give us pause because a new construction of the european social model should not be a failure, as was the lisbon agenda. the second failure will be decisive for the cohesion and inclusion of the european union.
mr president, two matters: first, accountability, which is vital to solve this situation in greece. the commission needs to clarify the flow of information with greece. the commission must report to parliament in detail about the macroeconomic information received from greece, as well as the methodology applied and the exact time when the commission was provided with each category of information and statistical data. the comission must clearly indicate where institutional and personal responsibility rests. someone is accountable and must be made accountable. this is an issue which is different from supporting greece. secondly, as recognised by the greek prime minister and emphasised by the public perception recorded in eurobarometer in 2009, corruption was a key factor leading to greece’s economic situation. it is time for the commission to put in place an anti-corruption policy for all member states and also to establish a mechanism to prevent and combat corruption – again, in all member states.
in writing. it is important that the european parliament cooperates constructively with the commission and the council. in this respect, today's debate on the conclusions of the european council of 25-26 march 2010 is welcome. among the topics covered, particular attention was paid to the economic strategy 'europe 2020' and to preparations for international negotiations on climate change. i believe that the problems of the euro area concern us all, as the stability of the euro is very important for the whole of the european union. the european council will play a more important role in coordinating instruments at national and european level aimed at improving the economic performance of the member states. in this context, solutions that deal only with budgetary issues are not sufficient, they are closely linked to economic ones. i support the european council's objectives of increasing employment, in particular through policies to support young people. the conditions for the development of investment in research and innovation need to be improved. in this area, as in setting climate change targets, realistic targets need to be set. the european commission must propose concrete measures as soon as possible to implement projects to reduce poverty throughout the european union.
in writing. the spring european council was so dominated by greece's economic problems that, if it had not been for the written conclusions of the post-summit, many of us would probably not have known that europe 2020 and much more had been discussed. but it is certain that the average european has not yet found out about this and lives with the impression that greece has monopolized the entire spring summit. without being cynical, we can say that the global crisis of the last two years has produced a good thing at european community level: a strategy, a vision of the future that prevents future spectacular economic collapses, that gives new directions to the development of the europe of 27 and, by implication, makes it more competitive. it is crucial, however, that the spring council's generous conclusions on the europe 2020 strategy do not end at the level of intention. the european union is a complex body, made up of distinct individuals who are institutionally united but who react in different ways to the lines drawn by the council of the european union. it is therefore likely that the adoption of clear targets by each member state would yield more results than leaving the actions needed to implement the strategy to its own discretion.
in writing. – the outcome of this summit is far from responding effectively to greece’s needs. mr. van rompuy says the eu’s capacity to reach consensus remains intact and so it is, but unfortunately there is only consensus on the lowest common denominator! the solution proposed is everything but a european one. in order to have a real european response we should have had a european framework for helping greece out of its debt crisis, instead of doing it through bilateral loans. moreover, i’m afraid that the credibility of the whole euro area may suffer if the imf is to intervene, not to mention the fact that apparently the greek government has stepped back on imf intervention since the imf conditions could lead to social and political unrest in the country. what's really worrying me is that markets have simply not reacted very positively to this solution, as interests proposed to greece by the markets remain around 7% or even slightly above, which is unfavorable for greece. nevertheless, i welcome the setup of the task force which i hope will come with more ambitious proposals so that the economic and fiscal sustainability of the eurozone is effectively ensured in the future.
in writing. the european council conclusions of 25-26 march 2010 clearly show the important ambitions of the member states for the period up to 2020. i particularly noted the consistent targets on increasing investment in research and development and reducing emissions, which are backed by figures and commitments. of course, for these to be turned into policies that produce results, political will is fundamental and we must all make an effort to do so. on the other hand, i would like to criticise the delay in setting quantifiable targets for reducing school drop-outs and increasing the number of university graduates, as well as for reducing social exclusion, especially since 2010 is the european year dedicated to this issue. if the pace of decision-making remains slow, due to many factors, a higher level of effectiveness must be demonstrated at the implementation level for this new strategy to be a success and not a new lisbon strategy.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of the european council, in particular the important decision to support greece, in cooperation with the imf. it is an important step towards strengthening european solidarity. greece is not the only country in the eurozone that is facing financial difficulties. structural reforms and the restoration of macroeconomic stability by redirecting budgetary resources towards sustainable growth are more relevant than direct aid. the european union needs a new strategic vision for growth and development in the medium term, linked to the judicious collection and redistribution of financial resources. two fundamental reforms - the cap reform and the cohesion policy reform, two resource-intensive budgetary components - must be added. increasing employment, increasing competitiveness and productivity, and highly productive investment in research and innovation are the main elements for halting the downturn and rebooting sustainable growth, the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. i would like to welcome the fact that the text of the european council's final conclusions has mentioned the particular importance of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy for ensuring the competitiveness of the union. the common agricultural policy in particular - a subject which is now the subject of heated debate in the run-up to the future reform of the sector - is a subject of particular importance. not only the more than 12 million european farmers, but also consumers expect concrete results from the cap reform, results that will have a positive impact on living standards and the quality of food consumed on the one hand, and on the competitiveness of european agriculture and the food industry on the other. in implementing its future policies, the european union has a duty to take account of the hopes its citizens have placed in the future cap.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy must be based on broad coordination of economic and environmental policies to generate eco-efficient growth and increased employment. the transition to a clean economy, generating green jobs, will only be achieved by changing production, consumption and transport patterns and will involve major investments from budgetary, private and fiscal sources. i believe that this process must be smart and green and a priority at all levels - local, national and european - that contributes to the well-being of all citizens and to the european union's leadership in an increasingly globalised economy.
in writing. i welcome the fact that at the european council of 25-26 march the union firmly committed itself for the first time to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 and reaffirmed its commitment to reduce emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels. the eu's biggest challenge today is the dramatic rise in unemployment. in february this year, the unemployment rate reached 10%, with over 23 million people unemployed, up 3.1 million from february 2009. the economic crisis has hit both the public and private sectors, with thousands of european businesses closing and millions of workers losing their jobs. reducing the number of employees and businesses dramatically affects both public spending budgets and the quality of life of european citizens. however, the eu must define its own development directions and provide the necessary funding. the union must invest in education, research and an ambitious and sustainable industrial policy to remain globally competitive. the eu also needs to invest in health, agriculture, transport and energy infrastructure. i ask the commission to present a legislative initiative on the establishment of a european fund for the development of transport infrastructure.
in writing. in six months, the european union has gone from a state of hope to almost total disintegration. six months ago, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon was a source of optimism and hope. six months later, the crisis in greece had put the union in a dramatic situation. the alarms are mounting, yet everyone is waiting, even though it is common knowledge that the unleashing of national protectionism could have fatal consequences. i am convinced that member states in difficulty need advice that is not cynical. the greek situation is not unique and the union is yet to face similar shocks. the solution lies in increasing eu solidarity, in effective coordination and in implementing strong economic governance. as a representative of the european people's party and a romanian hungarian politician who won his mandate as an expression of political solidarity, i believe that only the solidarity of the member states of the north and south, west and east - all of us - can lead us out of the crisis.
mr president, may i remind this house that one year ago communist abuses were met by a popular revolt in the republic of moldova. the protests brought to power a pro-european coalition and, one year on, the new government proved its european stance. the moldovan government needs immediate support from the eu, and there are three ways in which european support can help moldova: quick financial assistance, abolishing of visas and the conclusion of an association agreement. i also have to mention here the case of ernest vardanian, a journalist arrested, held incommunicado and indicted for high treason by the so-called authorities in transnistria. it is a serious human rights violation. i am asking the high representative for foreign affairs and the eu head of delegation to moldova to act urgently for the immediate release of the detained journalist.
mr president, when the creator of the concept of 'gross domestic product', simon kuznets, acknowledged that the well-being of a nation can only be measured with difficulty by the size of national income alone, i do not think he imagined that three quarters of a century would pass before five nobel laureates would work on a set of proposals for a more accurate assessment of economic performance and social product than that provided by gdp. this macroeconomic indicator neglects product quality, does not measure sustainable economic growth, and excludes, among other things, subsistence and suburban economies, domestic work, and volunteering. the outcome of this committee's work, summarised in the stiglitz report, proposes improving the national statistical system, better determining the quality of life and including sustainable development in the calculation of the index of economic and social progress. in this context, i believe that we need to have a coordinated system for measuring the quality of life, the sustainability of economic growth and, last but not least, social disparities throughout the european union. it would be a sign that we've learned something from the lesson of the recession that's affecting us so much.
madam president, the third postal directive, which will completely liberalize this market, is due to be implemented at the end of this year. the economic and financial crisis has repercussions known, including on the postal market. the effects of the crisis have doubled in the member states where the postal market has been fully liberalised following the application of the directive. here, layoffs, declines in the incomes of the remaining staff are above average. there have also been decreases in transactions, increases in postal rates, and the deprivation of citizens in hard-to-reach localities and regions of access to communications and universal service. i consider that an assessment of the social consequences of the application of this directive is necessary. it is our duty to prevent social dumping and i ask the european institutions concerned to consider the possibility of applying a moratorium of at least two years to the deadlines for implementing this directive, differentiated in each of the other member states.
i want to talk today about the very delicate situation of a journalist named ernest vardanian, who was arrested by the regime of igor smirnov in the self-proclaimed republic of transnistria. the vardanian journalist is accused of high treason and espionage, which is not only absurd, it's absolutely caricatural. the journalist has also been denied a free trial, he is living in absolutely indecent conditions and i would like to say that this gesture is a gesture by which the authorities in tiraspol want to intimidate chisinau, as the new government installed after last year's elections wants to get closer to the european union and also wants to resolve the transnistrian conflict. demand the immediate and unconditional release of journalist ernest vardanian and call on the authorities of the self-proclaimed republic of transnistria to take a step towards chisinau to unblock the conflict there.
madam president, commissioner, the treaty of lisbon is new in the process of delegating executive powers to the commission, and article 290 is precisely what it is about. delegated acts are thus acts of a general nature which may amend non-essential elements of a basic legislative act which gives a mandate for the delegation of executive powers to the commission. in practice, this sets out a mandate, the duration of the delegation, the time limit within which parliament and the council may raise objections and the conditions for the revocation of the mandate. the parliament and the council shall carry out a review, but after the adoption of the delegated acts. delegated acts can also be published during the period during which the european parliament and the council can raise objections, but i would ask you, commissioner, to ensure greater transparency during the process of drafting delegated acts as well.
deputising for the author. − madam president, the question was submitted by brian simpson on behalf of parliament’s committee on transport and tourism, following the commission’s report looking into the effectiveness of the eu blacklist. the eu blacklist was established in 2006 to name, shame and ban airlines which are not complying with international safety rules. it was established in response to concerns over the level of enforcement of international safety standards and on the back of several fatal air crashes over a short space of time in 2004 and 2005. four years on, we know that the blacklist has proved an effective and valuable tool in promoting enforcement of icao safety standards and in protecting eu citizens. how we can now build on this is the question facing us today. in other words, how can we extend the protection beyond our own borders and further work towards the goal of improving global aviation security? the blacklist has a responsibility not only to identify where the safety risks lie but also to ensure that this information is effectively communicated to eu citizens. in line with this, how can we ensure that eu citizens taking flights outside europe are aware of banned air carriers that continue operating in other regions of the world? in cases where the air carrier’s licence has been revoked and therefore the air carrier does not appear on the blacklist, how can we be sure that passengers are aware of this situation? we have seen how effective the bringing together of different national blacklists into one comprehensive eu-wide list has been. however, the blacklist is only as good as the access we have to information relating to the safety of air carriers. how can we build on the information which forms the basis of the blacklist by improving the access to verifiable and reliable information? this means not only looking at strengthening the checks made in eu member states but also approving the data information received from non-eu member states. would the commission consider establishing harmonised and standardised ramp checks and reporting? in terms of improving the data information received from third countries, would the commission consider establishing an effective system of international exchange of reliable data, bringing us closer to a kind of worldwide blacklist which i know has been mooted in the past? furthermore, it is worth pointing out that the blacklist has proved an effective tool in incentivising airlines to meet international safety standards. but how can we work more proactively towards the ultimate goal of improving global aviation safety? by this i mean, how does the commission intend to support national civil aviation authorities in meeting safety deficits based on icao audits and improving their oversight capability? it is crucial that we ensure effective communication channels with the public, but it is also vitally important that, in the long term, we continue to work on promoting the enforcement of international aviation safety standards around the world. this will ultimately be the most effective way of improving safety for all passengers. the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament looks forward to working with the commission to try and build on the eu’s blacklist achievements.
the blacklisting of unsafe air carriers is a welcome protection measure for european passengers. the list should be well publicised by the european commission and the member states, and especially by the travel agencies. it is really all about the good faith and the goodwill of the tour operators and the travel agencies. on the other hand, a solution is needed for a situation where a certain destination is served only by unreliable air carriers. a good number of the blacklisted carriers serve destinations in the third world, africa, south-east asia, central asia, developing or underdeveloped countries. the question is, to what extent can fair competition be maintained between the large european, american and far eastern airlines and the small carriers established in these developing countries? in this connection, i think we need to consider how the european union could support not their removal from the market by banning them, but their development by strengthening the safety and security of their flights. in this way, the european union would make it its duty to support the sustainable development of the air transport sector in these less-favoured countries as well.
the blacklist, updated on march 30 this year, contains 278 companies from 17 countries. the union must develop its technical and administrative capacity to ensure that the necessary rules are met in civil aviation, so that only airlines that comply with international safety rules fly into the european union, but at the same time we must also help third countries to improve their safety standards in civil aviation. the competent authorities of third countries need to strengthen their capacity to ensure oversight of the air carriers to which they grant licences. the analysis of the safety of flights of third country operators will be carried out in the european union and through ground checks of aircraft of these companies, taking into account evidence of incidents and serious accidents suffered by carriers in the last year. however, passengers must be informed of the entire route travelled and of all the companies they use to make the journey. this information should be provided at the latest at the time of purchase of the ticket.
madam president, this intervention – which is totally acceptable – is interfering with a debate on a subject. i would suggest that you place this sort of thing in between the reports.
the proposed legislation provides a framework for the setting of aviation security charges that is transparent, non-discriminatory and allows for appeal. security at airports is the responsibility of the member states. it is the passengers who pay, but ultimately, in the price of the ticket, for the security measures. therefore, passengers are entitled to have their security price indicated separately in the final price. the aviation security charges directive and the airport charges directive should be harmonised. parliament has repeatedly called for aviation security charges in this directive to be used by airlines and airport operators only for the implementation of aviation security measures. parliament also called for transparency and for the security fees and charges to be linked to the objectives pursued. however, member states may impose stricter security measures, the cost of which will, however, be borne by the member states. however, security measures should not impede the flow of passenger traffic at airports. unfortunately, especially here in brussels, we are faced with endless lines of passengers waiting to travel. i would also like to refer to the prohibition of liquids on board. this allows for the confiscation of various products and, unfortunately, at brussels airport, for example, there is a cumbersome procedure involving both additional charges and the confiscation of the product. it's a procedure that unfortunately doesn't give you the option of receiving the product at the recipient's address at a later date.
it is true that air travel is the safest of all modes of transport. however, international aviation events such as the one that happened ten days ago or the chaos created by a volcanic eruption make us question the entire chain of safety and security in aviation: airports, airlines, control towers, aircraft, crews, passengers. all these links must be linked together in a very close and unconditional way. the passenger concerned with his own journey and his own comfort cannot understand the necessity of security measures, however lax or stringent, nor the costs of them, unless he is aware of the significance of such a drama or tragedy as 9/11. a terrorist threat, a pilot error, a technical malfunction, a misunderstanding between the pilot and the control tower, unforeseen atmospheric conditions, all these aspects must be foreseen and strict measures must be taken to enforce the regulations both in letter and spirit. i agree with the exceptional measures in cases like the ones mentioned. however, measures need to be transparent. passengers have the right and should enjoy a safe journey as much as they have the right to know the truth. unfortunately, however, communication and transparency in the aviation security sector are areas that need to be improved urgently, and this is the task of airports and airlines, which need to become more open and transparent. and passengers need to understand that they need to be aware that airport and airline security measures, however stringent, are ultimately for their own good.
madam president, mr leichtfried is right. the cost for extra security should in the end be covered by the member states. after all, the passengers, and every citizen, are already paying the member states for their security in general. the state cannot simply say to its citizens, ‘you get exactly what you pay for’. its obligations go beyond that, because the state is not simply another service provider motivated exclusively by profit. i am reminding you of this simple truth because, in spite of this principle, the passengers and not their states are footing the bill for extra air security in the end, as the rapporteur rightly notes. moreover, many times the extra security that passengers are getting by paying extra charges is not even provided by the state, but by subcontracted private companies, often disregarding the passengers and their rights under the general shelter provided by the secrecy covering security matters in general. that simply should stop.
on behalf of the s&d group. this technical document allows for the updating of annex i by including maps of all member states and the delay of the deadline to 2020. the substantive debate on the update of the ten-t project list is planned for the end of the year. this list should include the development of maritime corridors to the black sea, road connections with the republic of moldova and ukraine, and the extension of current priority projects 6 and 17 so that the high-speed railway reaches bucharest and constanta. the eruption of the icelandic volcano has revealed the fragility of europe's transport system. within the union there should have been an efficient system for re-routing passengers to other means of transport. it is becoming imperative that trans-european transport is developed so that high-speed railways serve all the capitals of the member states as well as the major european cities. the development of inland waterway shipping and european sea corridors is also becoming important.
now that all air traffic across europe is being severely disrupted by the eruption of the icelandic volcano, the need to develop pan-european transport networks is more evident than ever. the european union should particularly support the development of transport infrastructure and its interconnection with the main european transport axes in the countries that have joined the union in recent years. romania is crossed by three pan-european corridors, 4, 7 and 9, all of which are closely linked to the black sea port city of constanța. i think special attention should be paid to corridor 7. the danube is part of the rhine-main-danube trans-european priority axis, which links the north sea and the black sea through the ports of rotterdam and constanta. it could become a real backbone of europe. however, cooperation is needed to put these transport corridors to use as soon as possible.
european maritime affairs cannot be viewed separately from international maritime affairs. europe is a major competitor in the maritime transport market, particularly in passenger and container shipping. the european union's position on the international market in this area needs to be improved. improving the quality of seafarers' education and improving their working and living conditions both on board ships and in ports and harbours can make a substantial contribution to this need. the european maritime industry, from shipbuilders to sailing vessels, is suffering from a shortage of highly skilled labour. american, asian, and middle eastern companies offer far more facilities than european ones. under these conditions, european professionals in the field prefer to work for shipping companies or shipowners in dubai or china, while european ships are serviced by filipino and indian seafarers. this can't go on. maritime institutions in the member states need to cooperate much more closely both to harmonise their curricula and to offer paid internship and exchange opportunities with european shipping companies. and there is another aspect of security, which is particularly important and continues to interfere with the smooth running of world shipping: the situation in the horn of africa. i salute the actions of navfor atalanta, who are doing their duty in the region. we must recognize, however, that special investment is needed in the defence industry to provide the military with ships and means of intervention far more efficient than those currently in the possession of the european navy.
shipping is becoming extremely important for the european union. given that the maritime sector faces particularly global competition, not only at community level, we stress the importance of increasing the share of maritime transport in the whole transport activity both at community level and above all at extra-community level. we would point out, however, that there are still european union member states on the paris memorandum's black or grey list. we therefore call on member states and shipowners to work towards being placed on the paris memorandum's white list. i also believe that, in view of the maritime accidents of recent years, it is necessary to set up european centres for responding to maritime accidents in all member states with access to the sea. commissioner, i take this opportunity, this debate, to reiterate my call on the commission to make the most of the european union's direct access to the black sea, an area of particular geo-strategic importance. in this respect, the commission should launch, as in the case of other european seas, calls for projects for the development of maritime corridors in the black sea. the link between the port of rotterdam and the port of constanta via the rhine, main and danube corridor shortens the distance between the north sea and the black sea by 4 000 km. i therefore consider it necessary and ask the commission and the member states to speed up the implementation of priority project no 18. although shipping is less polluting, the european parliament has called for shipping to be included in the scheme for the exchange of emission allowances, especially for maritime transport. the shipyards are facing financial difficulties, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis. today, shipbuilders see no solution to the current economic crisis. the european maritime sector is facing a growing shortage of qualified seafarers. the social dimension and working conditions enjoyed by european union seafarers are closely linked to the competitiveness of the european fleet and i believe it is necessary to facilitate the mobility of workers in the sector without unjustified barriers and restrictions.
mr president, i would like to address two issues mentioned by the rapporteur, but not elaborated upon. the first is piracy, on which the recommendations are all good, but inevitably general. perhaps our experience on the basis of the lessons learned from the atalanta operation can be used to contribute more to the self-protection rules recommended by the imo, given that piracy will probably expand and our union cannot reproduce that type of operation all over the maritime space used by the eu’s merchant navies. the second issue is the need for a better-developed link between the maritime and inland waterways sectors, given the complexity of activity in those areas. this is illustrated, for instance, in the interconnection between economic, social, environmental and political factors in the case of the river danube and the black sea.
the first question concerns a report we are asking the european commission to draw up on the effectiveness of the marco polo programme and the second question concerns the possibility or, rather, future legislative proposals to increase the role of the european union's seaports in global maritime logistics.
as rapporteur for the itre commission's opinion on the europeana report - the next steps, i welcome the completion of this report and hope that its recommendations will be taken up by the commission. the debate so far has covered topics such as the organisation of it, the governance of the europeana website, open access to library information, the need for standardisation of digitisation, and the problem of the mediaisation of the website to the it community. some of these subjects were included in the report. which makes me hope we've managed to get a full report. however, i hope that in the future the debate will continue on certain aspects such as the governance of the site, the methods of funding and, above all, its organisation in the form of a single database rather than a portal. i hope that the recommendations made by the european parliament, together with the commission's reflection on the above-mentioned issues, will be translated into a successful project. europeana can become a successful european union project as long as it is built on the union's values and ideals and is the centre of european cultural information.
in view of the benefits to european union citizens of access to europeana, i consider it necessary to make existing digital content available in all the official languages of the european union. i also consider it extremely important that europeana's digital content is accessible to people with disabilities. this requires an appropriate format, but also an access adapted to their needs. we recommend that the european commission require digital content providers to security certify the websites referred by europeana. last but not least, i believe it is important to ensure a sustainable system for the financing and development of the europeana project. and please, commissioner, tell us a few words about the revision of the copyright directive in the information society.
in writing. we intend europeana to be an entirely new project, dedicated to european cultural values, and not an alternative to google's book digitisation project. europeana - the digital library, museum and archive - must present the unique european heritage, be a credible source of information and allow member states to add content in a structured, formal way. europeana must not become a wikipedia-like portal where anyone can enter text without it being checked first, a practice which obviously leads to numerous errors in the content posted. to this end, we could create a special section of this site dedicated to discussions between users, but without giving them the opportunity to modify the cultural content displayed on the site. it is important to pay attention to the graphic presentation of the europeana website, its promotion and its accessibility, as the current form is not very user-friendly and may lead to the alienation of the interested public. in view of the above, i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe as an alternative to the current version of the report, so as to help create a valuable portal, relevant in terms of the information that the public will find here.
i congratulate mrs paulsen on her report, which provides solutions to animal welfare and the problems raised by this chapter in european policy. it is well known that animal health implies animal welfare, a certain minimum biological comfort, without which full expression of vitality, including natural behaviour, appropriate to changes in the environment is not possible. i therefore believe that the improvement and competitiveness of the agricultural sector must be maintained at european union level by promoting and respecting the existing rules on animal welfare, but also in accordance with the requirements for their protection. this requires member states to consider revising animal husbandry technologies and replacing old ones with modern, high-performance technologies that take into account the physiological requirements of animals and allow the best use of the biological productive potential of animals and result in much higher food security. this is of course both about allocating appropriate funds to this area and about making effective use of the support opportunities that they provide for member states to invest in innovative and modern solutions for animal welfare. i believe that the participation of citizens and civil society in the development and implementation of programmes in this area, adapted to the realities of each member state, can play an important role in finding the best solutions.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her broad approach, which has tackled one of the most pressing issues of our time. climate change is one of the most serious environmental, social and economic threats. crop productivity fluctuates from year to year, being significantly influenced by the variability of extreme climatic conditions and thus affecting all sectors of the economy, but the most vulnerable remains agriculture. in this context, the european commission's strategies must take into account both the prevention and the mitigation of the negative consequences for agriculture in the european union through an action plan in the most affected areas and, i am referring here to the adaptation of agricultural activities to the new conditions: afforestation, the management of agricultural water resources and the greening of contaminated land. the other aspect must be a forward-looking plan to eliminate the causes that lead to climate change by promoting a low-carbon global economy, coupled with a promotion of energy security. the european union must maintain its leadership in the fight against climate change, which must not be put in second place because of the current economic difficulties.
the agricultural sector generates a significant share of total carbon dioxide emissions and we therefore draw attention to the need to improve energy efficiency in this area. i ask the commission to continue to examine the link between high food prices and increasing energy prices, particularly for used fuels. i would like to remind you that incentives for sustainable energy crops should not jeopardize food production. we therefore call on the commission to monitor the effects of high biofuel production in the european union and in third countries on changes in land use, food prices and access to food. we call on the commission and the member states to promote research and development to prevent and enable adaptation to climate change. i am referring in particular to research into the next generation of biofuels.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr le foll, for this very important report on agriculture and climate change. the fight against climate change is an absolute priority globally. the eu is also making a huge contribution and also the agricultural sector already contributes in the fight against climate change. we have a policy that limits greenhouse gas emissions. agriculture also provides renewable energy sources in better using the whole cycle and all the products that come from agriculture. also, eu agriculture policy is working to optimise a carbon sink function of agricultural soils. since the 1992 reform, significant progress has been made in integration of all environmental considerations into the common agriculture policy. the recent ‘health check’ reform represented a further step in this direction with specific emphasis on climate change mitigation and adaptation. the current common agriculture policy framework provides a balanced approach between binding requirements enforced through cross-compliance, which sets the limits on some farming practices, and positive incentives for climate-friendly farming practices provided by rural development. the commission fully shares the view that climate change now needs to be addressed globally and it is important that others follow our example also. we need, on the one hand, to further help eu agriculture to contribute to mitigating climate change by reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions, enhancing co2 sequestration in soils and making use of renewable energies from other sources, and on the other, to be more productive, to be more efficient at providing food supplies, in this way demonstrating that one can achieve both goals: food security on the one side, environmental sustainability on the other side. in the preparation now of the common agricultural policy for post 2013, and in the light of the results of the ongoing negotiations on climate change, the commission will examine ways to further and better integrate adaptation and mitigation objectives in the common agriculture policy instruments.
in writing. climate change is directly affecting agriculture. the most severe effects are particularly evident in the rural population dependent on agricultural activity. women are among the most vulnerable to climate change, partly because in many countries they make up the majority of the agricultural workforce, and partly because they do not have access to the same income opportunities as men. the agriculture of the millennium we have entered requires a human activity that must respond to major demands: ensuring food security and safety for the global population (rising to 9 billion in 2050), harmonious correlation of measures to increase the quantity and quality of agricultural production for food with the requirements of developing biofuel production while protecting ecosystems and decoupling economic growth from environmental degradation. i believe that a new strategy needs to be adopted, based on a reorientation towards sustainable agricultural production models, which requires compensatory aid to cover the additional costs linked to these objectives (e.g. local eco-certification contracts), the creation of 'green' jobs and the integration of women into the labour market (maintenance of rural areas, conservation of biodiversity, greenhouses for vegetables and flowers).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr dorfmann for an excellent report on the commission communication entitled ‘towards a better targeting of the aid to farmers in areas with natural handicaps’. i would like to address a couple of issues. the overall objective of the natural handicap payments is to ensure continued land use and, through agricultural land management, maintain the countryside as well as to promote sustainable farming systems. the payments to farmers in these areas compensate farmers’ additional costs and income forgone, which occur due to the existing natural handicap. the council has decided to remove the socioeconomic criteria from the objectives of natural handicap payments. the removal of socioeconomic criteria should be seen in the context of the whole suite of measures available to member states in the rural development regulation – the diversification into non-agricultural activities, the development of micro- and small and medium-sized enterprises and tourism activities, as well as the provision of basic services. so the natural handicap payments are not the intervention lever that aims to tackle this issue of depopulation. compensating farmers in areas where production is not hampered by natural handicaps and where there is no additional cost or income forgone would distort competition with farmers in other areas. furthermore, socioeconomic indicators change over time and would, therefore, require a continual follow-up and revision process of each area concerned. the proposal to take remoteness into account is not practical against the agreed framework set down by the council, which relates to natural handicaps. in terms of their peripherality, there are other levels of delimitation possible, for example the specific handicap article of the regulation. at the different stages of the process, the commission invited member states to submit alternative proposals for biophysical criteria and their thresholds. these proposals will be analysed by scientists for their validity and, above all, for their transparency and possible community-wide applicability. the alternative thresholds, however, must lead to the conclusion that an area in question is affected by a significant handicap, as desired by the council. once the exercise of testing a delimitation based on biophysical criteria is completed, the commission proposal for the common agricultural policy after 2013 will take the results of this exercise into account. any legal proposal will also aim for a smooth transition for those areas which may lose their status of areas with a natural handicap.
in writing. the aid scheme for areas affected by natural handicaps has effectively contributed to maintaining the exploitation of agricultural land in these regions and the importance of providing adequate compensation for less-favoured areas is indisputable. the delimitation and classification of the zones was carried out by the member states on the basis of several criteria, according to their own system of indices. even comparing these systems is very difficult, as they use different methods of classification and weighting. establishing a common set of classification criteria would increase the transparency, reliability and efficiency of the system across europe. in this connection, i support the need to review the aid system for farmers in areas with natural handicaps and to draw up a comprehensive strategy for less-favoured areas, thus reducing the discrepancies between member states in the allocation of financial support.
in the eu-27, some two million passengers use air transport annually, 22% at national level, 44% at intra-community level and 34% at extra-community level. the eruption of the icelandic volcano has revealed the fragility of europe's transport system. over the past six days, more than 17 000 flights have been cancelled and millions of passengers have been stranded in various locations inside and outside the union. under these conditions, it was imperative that passengers be informed correctly and promptly. the safety of our passengers must be our primary concern. therefore, especially within the union, there should be an efficient system for the re-routing of passengers to other means of transport: rail, waterways or roads. if such a system had been operational, 66% of the passengers stranded during that period, those travelling within a member state or within the community, would have reached their destination by other means of transport. it is becoming imperative to allocate the necessary funds for trans-european transport to be developed so that high-speed railways serve all the capitals of the member states as well as the major european cities. the development of inland waterway shipping and european sea corridors is also becoming imperative. let's show political will and keep the motto 'keep europe moving!'.
exceptional natural phenomena, like the eruption in iceland, unfortunately cannot yet be predicted. an inappropriate reaction can be argued in such cases, but only once. we have an obligation to carefully analyze what happened and prepare an effective response in the event of a repeat of such a phenomenon. information on the consequences of the eruption was insufficient. today, almost a week after the chaos began, we still don't know how long it will last and what the risks actually are. the creation of an appropriate monitoring centre, regardless of the cost, is necessary to enable those involved, companies and passengers, to take the necessary measures. the response from the airlines was delayed and fragmented, and caused great problems for the passengers. there was no attempt to cooperate between the companies in order to coordinate the management of passenger flows and to make the best possible use of the routes still available. the only logical response to this shortcoming is the creation of a single european sky and the centralisation of traffic control under the responsibility of a single body. mr president-in-office of the council, last year i was rapporteur for the single european sky and it was very difficult for me to get the current form after extremely tough negotiations with the council. this year, the same thing is happening with the european freight corridors. i think the member states should understand something of what has happened now. the response of the member states was not sufficient and did not lead to the provision of transport by other means. in europe today, you can't buy a train ticket in a civilized way. the creation of a european centre for response and coordination in the event of exceptional natural disasters is absolutely essential. modernising rail passenger transport is also a priority that is much talked about but little done. i hope that the member states have understood something very important: it is not enough to be prepared at home, it is necessary to have the same conditions everywhere in the union. we need european coordination, european responsibility and the possibility of taking a decision at european level.
there has been a lot of talk in the last few days about the economic losses suffered by airlines, which are a reality. it is becoming clear that a mechanism for aiding companies is needed, especially as this crisis caused by the icelandic volcano eruption may be prolonged. but first and foremost, i think it has to be passenger safety and consumer protection. there has been a lot of complaints from passengers, who are treated differently depending on the country or the airline. it is clear that unification of practices is needed, which would be a great step forward for passengers, who are now moving from place to place amid uncertainty about the reopening of airspace.
in writing. air traffic safety needs no justification. since the icelandic volcano erupted, air travel has become almost impossible. i am convinced that more coordination at european level would have been helpful to eu citizens stranded in various airports around the world or unable to start their intended journeys. i hope that one day the single european sky will become a reality. the blockade of the last few days has, as is well known, also affected the parliament in which we are sitting, more precisely its functioning in plenary session. i think that the postponement of the vote and the shortening of the sitting by one day, despite the fact that on monday evening, april 19, about 65% of the members were present, is not justified. in my opinion, the session should have been held normally.
in writing. the european commission's work programme for 2010 is an ambitious and flexible multiannual programme which sets as its main objectives to combat the crisis and support europe's social market economy, to develop a citizens' agenda that puts people at the centre of european action, to develop an ambitious and coherent external agenda with a global dimension and, last but not least, to modernise the european union's instruments and working methods. a key element of the citizens' agenda is the stockholm programme for 'an open and secure europe serving and protecting citizens', adopted by the european council at its meeting in december 2009. i would like to welcome the commission's initiative to present an action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme to ensure that european citizens will actually enjoy the benefits of the area of freedom, security and justice. the programme will focus in particular on the fight against cross-border crime and will strengthen the implementation of the common immigration and asylum policy, covering in particular areas such as the fight against organised crime, terrorism and other threats by improving police and judicial cooperation.
in writing. the eu's main concern is to combat the crisis and to support the union's social market economy. at the beginning of the year, the unemployment rate in the eu was 10% and among young people it was 20%. the increase in the employment rate is closely linked to the eu's industrial policy. what legislative initiatives does the commission envisage for the future industrial policy of the union and for the creation of new jobs? the european council of 25/26 march 2010 set for the first time an eu target of 20% energy efficiency by 2020. i did not find this objective in the commission's work programme, although initiatives are needed in this area which can target both european households and businesses. the eu budget for transport infrastructure is also almost non-existent for the period 2010-13, although the challenges and development needs are immense: ensuring intermodality between different types of transport: developing high-speed rail to serve all eu capitals and major european cities, developing rail freight corridors, developing the single european sky, modernising ports and developing shipping. when will the commission present a proposal on the financing needed for the development of trans-european transport infrastructure?
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to express to all the honourable members in this chamber great appreciation for the attention this parliament continues to pay to haiti. before passing the floor to andris piebalgs, who will inform you about the reconstruction and development of haiti, let me outline the four main humanitarian challenges for the months to come and how the european commission is addressing them. the first is the continuation of humanitarian assistance, and in particular shelter, sanitation and health services. the relocation of the 1.3 million homeless in port-au-prince in temporary housing is a very complex undertaking because of practical issues such as land ownership, rubble removal, urban planning and security. today, the priority concern are some 10 000 to 30 000 people living in makeshift camps in flood-prone areas. with the approach of the hurricane season, they have to be urgently relocated. this is a priority in our programme, as is strengthening camp management skills. we are paying very close attention to the pre-positioning of relief stocks. most of them were completely depleted after the earthquake. we are now replenishing them and building the capacity of the haitian civil protection service, which has actually become stronger as a result of the crisis, so that they can make use of them. secondly, we have adopted a ‘follow the needs’ approach and are providing assistance where people are, in order to prevent further mass movements. we have made sure that our help reaches the whole of the country and not just port-au-prince. in this way we have contributed to reducing the pressures in the capital. following the same logic, we are also applying a ‘whole-of-island’ approach, whether it relates to the issue of haitian refugees or to the logistics of the delivery of aid, or pre-positioning of relief stocks for the hurricane season. the dominican republic matters also and is not forgotten in our recovery programme. thirdly, we are making sure that donor coordination results in building on each other’s comparative advantage. with many actors in haiti, this is no trivial challenge, but we have consistently been a very strong voice for un-led humanitarian coordination. when i was in haiti, my impression was that we have actually done quite well – in terms both of the civil protection teams from individual countries and in our own work. fourthly, we must ensure the transition from humanitarian relief to recovery and reconstruction. we are working very closely with andris piebalgs to facilitate this transition whenever possible. i will give you two specific examples. firstly, in the food sector, we are encouraging local purchasing of food. we are asking our partners – even if it is a bit more expensive – to reach out to local farmers to create demand and help them to recover. that of course leads to work on reconstruction. secondly, we are also supporting cash-for-work programmes so, again, we can build a transition from relief to recovery. last but not least, we are very focused on results. europe is number one in terms of volume of aid and it has to be number one in terms of results.
member of the commission. − mr president, at the new york international donors’ conference, the european union pledged eur 1.235 billion. we are the largest donor to haiti’s reconstruction so, in this way, we will also be the largest contributor to the government of haiti’s action plan for reconstruction. i am also proud about the manner in which we did it because it was an eu common pledge, which consisted of support from many eu countries, like spain, france and the wider community. but i am also proud that even my country, which has not had too many relations with haiti, pledged additional funding, not just the funding channelled through the community budget. the new york conference took place in a very good spirit. there was a very strong financial outcome, there was very clear ownership of haiti’s government and there were many stakeholders. some members of the european parliament could see that ngos, including european ngos, had a voice there. eu businesses have also been involved and also interim mechanisms for coordination, proposed under the leadership of prime minister bellerive and bill clinton. as all the stakeholders are included in this mechanism, it gives a guarantee that money will not be wasted or used for other purposes. it is very important now that we concentrate our aid as quickly as possible. the commission and member states are already preparing a new country strategy paper and a national indicative programme for haiti. to support our joint efforts we will speed up our efforts to set up an eu house in haiti, which would give greater visibility but will also help involve non-resident donors. i shall be going to haiti this week to deliver first-hand concrete support to long-term reconstruction in the areas of infrastructure and governance. this week i will sign five financial agreements for a total amount of more than eur 200 million and i will also inaugurate some of the work we have already done like the rehabilitation of the road between port-au-prince and cape haitian, which is fully in line with the plan of action of the government and also which supports the ‘whole-of-the-island’ approach. to reinforce the government capacities, i will also inaugurate the reconstruction of the ministry of interior, financed with eu contributions. i will also inaugurate a school in mirabelais. our particular focus is on education, as president préval has requested, and we will also announce more budget support delivery. delivering budget support is not blind support. we have taken many precautionary measures and undertaken many visits, so i can guarantee that your money will be used for its purpose. i will also commit to regulatory monitors for the construction process through regular visits and to speed up aid delivery. i will keep the european parliament constantly informed of the progress made on haiti reconstruction. i would also like to emphasise that it is not only me but the whole college: kristalina georgieva, the high representative, baroness ashton, and also some of my other colleagues who will help oversee the reconstruction, such as michel barnier, who will go in a couple of months to haiti. it is the ownership not only of the responsible commissioner, but of the whole college. we also need to discuss with the authorities a couple of issues on how to better deliver our assistance. long-term commitment from the international community will not prevail if haiti quickly slips back to a ‘business as usual’ approach. to prevent this scenario, we must strive to be effective and we have already mentioned some of the ways in which we can achieve this. but equally there is great responsibility resting with the authorities and the people of haiti to build in a better way. two aspects stand out, in particular. on the social front, the government should be encouraged to enter into very close contact with the opposition and also with the whole civil society. that will build genuine national consensus around the development plan and promote the stability necessary for its implementation. on the economic side, the macroeconomic framework presented in new york must be more rigorous and combined with a clear path towards employment and growth, which will break the cycle of poverty and inequality.
the situation in haiti is far from stable, as the two commissioners, mrs georgieva, who was in haiti at the end of march, and mr piebalgs, have pointed out. so do the aid workers who are on the scene to distribute relief and help with reconstruction. if the situation in the capital seems to be returning to normal, at least in terms of people's daily lives, i think that now efforts should be focused on the provinces, where there are still big problems. the situation is becoming more urgent and worrying as the rainy season approaches and the state of transport infrastructure may lead to disruption of the flows of aid intended for the daily needs of the population. the reconstruction efforts are only just beginning, as you said, and it is clear that other problems will continue to arise in connection with infrastructure, ensuring decent living conditions for the population, ensuring the functioning of a minimum of public services, education and health. there will also be problems with the manpower needed, with the training. a major problem is that of orphaned and temporarily separated children, who are among the most vulnerable and most dangerous to their future. i think we need to pay more attention to this aspect of the humanitarian crisis in haiti, because there have been and are problems with child trafficking and abusive adoptions. last but not least, i would like to say that i am pleased that the management of the problems in haiti remains a priority for the commission and i assure you that the same is true for all the members of the development committee.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr salafranca on his excellent work on this report. the european parliament is sending a clear message at this time to intensify relations between the european union and latin america, especially as the eu-latin america summit is due to take place in the coming months. at the same time, the eu-latin america relationship is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. however, there is a great potential for increased trade between the two regions. the european union must therefore provide the means to promote european products on the latin american market. in this sense, some romanian products are sold in latin america - and here we have an example, our national car, dacia. romania has a long tradition of good cooperation with latin america, and latinity is a common value element. i would stress that the tripartite approach, as mentioned by the rapporteur, is welcome, and should be part of the european union, latin america and america. at the same time, we must have cooperation projects in view that will strengthen the imf's legal status, equal access to education and the labour force. in conclusion, mr salafranca's report, as well as the madrid summit, should lay the foundations for the development of a longterm strategic partnership between the eu and latin america.
the strategy for relations with latin america has proved its importance from its launch to the present day, with this strategic partnership bringing a new consistency to relations between our regions and making possible the financing of projects and programmes worth over eur 3 billion over the last 10 years. fortunately, the countries of latin america have so far weathered the economic and financial crisis more successfully than some developed countries. however, poverty levels remain at impressive levels or are deepening among the disadvantaged population due to the chronic social polarization and political and institutional dysfunctions in the area. in bolivia, for example, about 60 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. brazil reports 26 percent, argentina 13.9 percent of the population below the poverty line. i therefore strongly support the need for development assistance to focus on building institutional capacity in these countries to address social disparities. it is important that our colleague salafranca's report promotes increased dialogue to identify ways of achieving the mdgs, but i think it is essential to ensure that this strategy takes into account the inclusion of civil society and non-governmental organisations in this dialogue and in the actions to implement the objectives of the strategy.
in writing. the european union is latin america's first trading partner and mercosur's and chile's second. the member states of the european union are also the most important source of direct investment in latin america. however, the relationship between the european union and latin america goes beyond the commercial side, integrating historical, institutional and cultural components. in this context, i believe that a closer trade agreement with latin america is needed, and a first step in this direction is to continue efforts to sign the association agreement with mercosur. the association agreement is an instrument that would help to promote the common economic, social and geopolitical interests of the two regions. it would also be the first intercontinental association agreement between the north and the south, offering an alternative to other less equitable integration attempts, such as the free trade area of the americas. closer trade cooperation between latin america and the european union would allow the implementation of economic and social cohesion policies with the aim of promoting economic development and prosperity in both regions. i hope that we will see satisfactory conclusions in this respect at the eu-mercosur summit on 17 may.
the situation in kyrgyzstan is particularly worrying. this country has a strategic position in central asia. it is home to a us military base that plays a very important role in the afghan operation, as well as russian troops. it is regrettable that the protests of the past few weeks have degenerated into violence and loss of life. the authorities must take measures to ensure that civilian lives are protected. just yesterday, there were new clashes between ethnic kyrgyz, russians and turks. with large communities of russians and uzbeks living in the country, continued ethnic strife will threaten the stability of the entire region. the european union must pay particular attention to the conflict in kyrgyzstan, provide humanitarian aid and be involved in stabilising the situation.
kurmanbek bakiev is not the first and certainly not the last political leader who brings disappointment, who disappoints, who is treated as a dictator, after at first he was a hope and after initially his name was linked to democratic optimism. the explanation for this is simple, namely that, in the absence of solid institutions, a politician risks disappointment, entering into this logic of conflict, corruption, blackmail - let us all remember that, taking advantage of the fact that there is both a russian and an american military base on the territory of kyrgyzstan, leader bakiev has always blackmailed the western side. the solution, therefore, lies in institutions built by consensus, based on broad consultation and a broad consensus and compromise of political forces. but before that, as the high representative has mentioned, there is an urgent need to stop the violence. the violence is serious and a solution must be found to end it very quickly, because a process of political construction cannot begin otherwise.
as the high representative, mrs ashton, has said, canada is one of the european union's oldest partners and this year's summit is important for continuing and strengthening this close cooperation in all areas: economic, trade, climate change, military. i therefore welcome the progress made so far towards an eu-canada trade agreement and hope that this year's meeting will give impetus to its completion. in the current economic and climate context, i must stress the need for close collaboration to identify alternatives to traditional sources of energy production that respect the specificities of each country, both the european union and canada, and are committed to the development and use of low-carbon technology. at the same time, cooperation in the field of energy-climate and maritime affairs in the arctic should also be promoted. there are also some sensitive points that will be touched at the summit. i am referring to the environment, global warming, acta, ceta, the banking sector, the stabilisation of financial and economic markets, the sites conference and the eu-canada pnr agreement. i think that, with the experience of the past, the european union and canada will be able to resolve as many of these issues as possible. but these issues must be approached with tact and understanding, without resentment, looking only to the future and taking into account the interests of the citizens of both sides. ensuring reciprocity in bilateral relations is a basic principle of the european union and i hope that in the near future canada will lift the visa requirement for romanian, czech and bulgarian nationals, thus ensuring equal and fair treatment for all european union citizens. finally, given that the european parliament's opinion is necessary for the conclusion of any international treaty, it must be involved and consulted from the initial stage of any project. i therefore ask the commission to ensure effective communication with the european parliament in order to achieve sustainable results.
i would like, first of all, to stress, as other colleagues have done, that the eu-canada summit is an important opportunity to deepen the partnership with this important democracy. it is a very important relationship for the union, as these are partners who share the same values and have cooperated over a long period of time. at the same time, i would like to recall the declaration of the previous eu-canada summit in prague in may 2009, which reiterated the partners' common objective, and i quote, 'to deepen the free and secure movement of persons between the european union and canada, with a view to extending visa-free travel to canada for all european citizens as soon as possible'. a year later, we are forced to remark that we are far from that goal. at the moment, not only are romanians and bulgarians still subject to visa requirements, but for the czech republic, as you know, visas were reintroduced last year. i think that we have here first of all a problem of reciprocity, given that, as is well known, all the member states of the union have abolished visas for canadian citizens, in accordance with our legislation, and on the other hand, if i may, there is also a problem of consistency, because canada abolished visas for one of the candidate countries, croatia, while maintaining, i repeat, at this moment, visas for citizens of the union. the summit in may must therefore, i believe, bring about significant progress, decisive progress on the abolition of visas for all citizens of the member states. i think that very concrete measures are needed and that this objective should be pushed as high as possible on the agenda because we are no longer satisfied with declarations of principle. the discrimination is deeply unfair, particularly for citizens of their country of origin, a member state of the union that has made substantial technical progress in lifting visas.
my colleague sebastian bodu could not come to strasbourg today and i can afford to replace him. at this point, 39 million european citizens from romania, the czech republic and bulgaria cannot travel to canada without a visa. more than half of these - 22 million - are romanians. the maintenance of the visa regime by canada, as indeed by the united states of america, for a part of europeans, creates two categories of european citizens. the free movement of european citizens must be treated as a whole. the visa issue is about the eu-canada relationship. president barroso insisted at the last summits that the matter be resolved. this approach must be continued. as regards romania, the refusal rate of visas applied for by romanian citizens decreased from 16% to 5% between 2004 and 2008. about 200,000 romanians live in canada, the vast majority of them having arrived there through official immigration programs of the canadian state. i don't understand why canada has different approaches. in 2009, visas for a european country outside the european union were eliminated because of the large number of citizens from that country in canada. i also believe that the czech republic should again benefit from visa-free travel and that the reason for its reintroduction should not become a criterion for other countries. the issue of visas is on the agenda of the eu-canada summit introduced by the european parliament. the union's position of october 2009 should be maintained, namely the application of the solidarity clause if the problem is not resolved by the end of 2010. madam vice-president ashton, the abolition of visas for member states would be a major success of your work. i wish you the very best of luck in this endeavour.
mr president, commissioner, air transport is crucial to bringing the european union and canada closer together by facilitating the transport of goods and people. the european union-canada air transport agreement, signed on 18 december 2009, and the agreement between the european union and canada on civil aviation safety, signed in prague on 6 may 2009, are two important components of the transatlantic dialogue between the european union and canada. the former shall be applied provisionally until it enters into force following its ratification. the council has not yet received any notification to that effect. the second agreement shall not be applied provisionally. the council shall forward the proposal for a decision and the text of the agreement to the european parliament for its opinion. given the importance of air transport for cooperation between the european union and canada, i would like to ask you, madam vice-president, when will the two agreements between the european union and canada on air transport be able to enter into force?
in writing. at the moment, 39 million european citizens from romania, the czech republic and bulgaria cannot travel to canada without a visa. more than half of these, 22 million, are romanians. the fact that canada maintains the visa regime for some of us is unacceptable because it creates two categories of european citizens. the free movement of european citizens must be treated as a unitary and common issue, and the visa issue concerns the eu-canada relationship and not the bilateral relations between canada and those countries. as regards romania, the refusal rate of visas applied for by romanian citizens decreased from 16% to 5% between 2004 and 2008. some 200,000 romanians live in canada, some of them having arrived there through official canadian immigration programs. it's one of the reasons why there are so many visa applications. the issue of visas is on the agenda of the eu-canada summit, introduced by the european parliament. the eu's position must be to apply the solidarity clause if the problem is not resolved by the end of 2010. the abolition of visas for member states would be a first achievement of the high representative for the common foreign and defence policy.
in writing. i believe that one of the priority issues on the agenda of the eu-canada summit scheduled for 5 may in brussels should be the abolition of visas for all eu citizens, based on the principle of reciprocity and to eliminate the current discrimination against romanian, bulgarian and czech citizens to visit canada without a visa. this is all the more bizarre since last year the canadian authorities removed the requirement for short-stay visas for croatian citizens, whose country is still negotiating its accession to the eu. romania has made significant progress in recent years, including on several important criteria for visa liberalisation: the visa refusal rate, the overstay rate and the number of asylum applications are in continuous decline. the abolition of visas would therefore reflect this development, and equal treatment for european and canadian citizens would help to strengthen mutual trust.
vice-president of the commission. − in a world that is moving fast into a new digital age, europe needs to be prepared with the state of the art broadband infrastructure that will indeed drive the growth of tomorrow. the council of march 2009 fixed an indicative target of achieving 100% coverage by 2013. the europe 2020 strategy has taken the challenge one step further by setting the 2020 high-speed broadband targets as 30 megabits per second for all europeans, including people living in rural regions, and as 100 megabits per second for 50% of households subscribing to internet. the digital agenda for europe, which is one of the seven flagship initiatives under eu 2020, sets out a strategy to promote high-speed internet in europe and is scheduled for adoption not that long from now. the agenda will be followed by three documents on broadband: firstly, broadband communication, which details the implementation of the agenda with respect to broadband; secondly, the recommendation on new generation access (nga), which aims to clarify the basis to encourage investment in high-speed internet; and thirdly, the first radio spectrum policy programme, which will form the basis of the commission’s strategy to generate enough spectrum for wireless broadband. the actions to promote high-speed broadband in the digital agenda comprise not only the commission commitment but also suggestions to the member states. those suggestions will bring into focus the development of national broadband strategies covering the promotion of private investment using town-planning rules, mapping of infrastructure and clearing of rights of way; and by doing that the member sates can substantially cut investment costs and make them more viable. they will also focus on bridging the financial gap by fully using the available structural funds to fund high-speed broadband and, where there are no incentives for private funding, direct public financing. the commission for its part is looking at the options available to increase private and public investment in nga to reach the agreed targets. financial engineering will be among the considered options to reduce the gap between what is required and what the market is prepared to invest.
vice-president of the commission. − it is not only the commission but also the council which took the wise decision, so to speak, to have an indicative target of achieving 100% coverage by 2013. 100% is 100%, so whoever you are thinking of should be covered by the 100%.
commissioner, the economic recovery plan provides for a sum of one billion euros to cover up to 100% of the broadband infrastructure. i'd like to ask you, what is the status of this project, given the importance of this infrastructure?
in writing. the creation of the european asylum support office is a very important step in the establishment of a common european asylum system as provided for in the european pact on immigration and asylum and the stockholm programme. the office will contribute to enhancing cooperation between the european institutions, local authorities and civil society and identify common practices in asylum matters. i am confident that this will lead to a rapprochement of member states' positions on asylum policies. this is very necessary given that some member states are facing large flows of asylum seekers and cooperation and solidarity between member states is needed both to help these states cope with the problems they are facing and to improve the common european asylum system. i would like to mention that this system will be based, legally and practically, on the full and global application of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite all the changes to the legislative framework at community and national level to counter the effects of the crisis, its impact on the real economy and the labour market is now being felt strongly and widely. high unemployment is seriously affecting the economies of the member states, but financing is still very slow. the effective implementation of cohesion policy programmes is fundamental, as it represents an important lever in providing support to the real economy through the €347 billion for 2007-13. the additional effort should be directed towards the most affected beneficiaries in order to accelerate the flow of funding to investments in the regions of the member states. i think that an important amendment is the one concerning the possibility of financing a single major project from the various programmes for projects covering several regions. i congratulate the rapporteur on his work, but i must say that although it was a long-awaited report, it was a difficult one. i suggest that we need to find solutions, to prioritize goals much more carefully to avoid situations where very good measures are delayed too long. simplifying bureaucratic procedures in general will also increase absorption capacity in countries facing this problem, including my country, romania. a volcanic eruption has shaken the planet in five days and could cause another crisis. how long before we have the ability to react? one thing is very clear to me: from now on we have to make decisions much faster. (applause) thank you very much.
the effects of the economic crisis have been felt since 2008, with the main problems currently being unemployment, falling living standards and poverty. at the level of european union policies, there has been a continuous effort to expand and improve the tools available to counter these effects and, by implication, to encourage european economic growth. a good example of this is mr kirilov's report, which was drawn up on the basis of the commission's very good and welcome proposal to simplify the requirements for member states' access to the funds in question. i welcome the report drawn up by mr kirilov and support it, both in terms of the unification of the amounts proposed for major projects and in terms of the adaptation of the specific technical criteria and conditions to facilitate the management of the funds available. these changes are in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which encourages job creation and supports investments to protect the environment.
in writing. this report amending the general regulation on the implementation of the structural and cohesion funds is of particular importance to the citizens of the european union. until now, several member states, including romania, have had a low absorption rate of european funds. many citizens, businesses and local authorities have criticised the difficult procedures they face when trying to obtain funding for their projects. the european parliament, in drafting this report, aims to address the problems identified in this respect. i support the proposals to simplify the procedures for accessing european funds. by reducing unnecessary administrative procedures and red tape, and by establishing clearer rules, the absorption of european funds will be able to increase. these measures are particularly welcome at a time when member states are suffering from the economic crisis. five european countries, including romania, will be part of a process to accelerate the absorption of european funds. the implementation of a new procedure for advance payments will allow for more projects to be completed more quickly. romania will also benefit from the change in the rules on reducing the risk of loss of unused funds sufficiently quickly.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and welcome the agreement finally reached in the council and the committee on regional development. i believe it is extremely important that we adopt this report as soon as possible, so that we can provide the member states most affected by the crisis with the financial support needed for economic recovery. one of the key aspects promoted in this report is the simplification of procedures for accessing and implementing european funds. especially now, in the context of the economic crisis, we need rapid recovery measures. i therefore believe that the allocation of 2% of the european social fund and 4% of the cohesion fund as advances is the best solution for member states with severe liquidity problems and which will thus be able to benefit from substantial aid. european social fund funding should play an active role in the economic recovery of the member states most affected by the crisis in their efforts to maintain jobs, improve the level of vocational qualifications and, by implication, prevent and combat unemployment.
i would like to start by referring to the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008, section iii - commission and executive agencies. we welcome the voluntary initiatives of denmark, the netherlands, sweden and the united kingdom to draw up national management declarations. we are confident that progress will be made when national management declarations are received for all eu funds under shared management. we therefore ask the commission to draw up recommendations for the preparation of these management declarations. as regards the research framework programme, we are concerned that the current programme does not meet the needs of a modern research environment and we believe that further modernisation and simplification are essential for the future framework programme. i would also like to refer to the implementation of the budget of the european agency for network and information security for the financial year 2008. it shows that the agency's accounts recorded interest income of over eur 143 000 for the financial year 2008, which demonstrates that the agency has a high volume of liquidity for long periods. in this regard, we ask the commission to examine not only the possibilities of fully implementing needs-based cash management, but also to consider the extension of enisa's mandate beyond 2012 and at the level of competences.
the european union recognises the particular importance of the global exchange of information in the fight against terrorism. the socialist group in the european parliament supports any action that can lead to the prevention and suppression of terrorism. meps have been democratically elected to represent the interests of european citizens and cannot take for granted that they must protect their rights under treaties and conventions. there are a few issues that we cannot ignore, such as the protection of personal data, legal protection, the amount of data transferred, proportionality, reciprocity or the permanent involvement of the european parliament in the monitoring process. i believe that the designation of a european authority to receive, authorise and transfer swift data would be a solution whereby the european union would have the guarantee that this data will be used only for the purpose of fighting terrorism and that it belongs only to the suspects already identified, and european citizens would have someone to whom they could complain about abuses. we ask the commission to report at least annually on the progress of the agreement in question. in my opinion, this will be a guarantee that the trial is proceeding according to the approved agreement and that we will be able to eliminate any shortcomings in time. in order to better understand each other's points of disagreement, i propose that briefings be held immediately at the level of the political groups of the european parliament, or even at the level of national delegations, together with the us representatives accredited to the european union or to the member states.
as is well known, and as has been said today, the fight against terrorism is a common cause in europe. anti-americanism is not a common cause in europe and for that reason, contrary to what one of my colleagues said earlier, i do not think that a moment which expressed anti-americanism in the best way could be considered a founding moment of our parliament. because, in general, i believe that feelings towards the united states should not block the agreement on counterterrorism. i would also like to talk about trust in the relationship with the united states. we have, the european union and the united states, common enemies who do not hesitate to profit from any fissure, any evidence of lack of trust in this relationship. the data submitted by swift may not be used for any purpose other than the fight against terrorism. except, of course, when other extremely serious acts - drug trafficking, espionage - are associated with terrorism. let's have faith in our american partners.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i should like to begin by telling mr seeber that i was present this morning at the debate to which he referred. although i was not officially invited, the honourable members asked me to come and i came, i was there and i took part in that debate. perhaps he was the one who was not present, as he is now, who is not in this session and has left the room. i would like to say that the debate we had was extremely constructive. i think it reflects a genuine spirit of cooperation on both sides, on all sides involved: the european parliament, the commission and the council. the rapporteur, mrs hennis-plasschaert, has acknowledged - and i am very grateful to her - the spirit of cooperation she sees in the council, as well as in the commission. i appreciate you saying that publicly. the mandate proposed by the commission, through commissioner cecilia malmström, and the mandate which the council is going to adopt will undoubtedly take into account and be inspired by the concerns and approaches of its speeches and by the proposal or draft resolution put forward by the rapporteur. i have been able to ascertain that there are a number of problems which are of particular concern to you, and i want to assure you that those problems which you raise, those concerns, will form part of the negotiating directives which the council is going to adopt. the negotiation will be led by the commission and will lead to something which the council and the european parliament have to sign. and in those negotiating directives there will be, first of all, the problem of the mass transfer of data, which has been raised here repeatedly this afternoon. the question has been raised by mr albrecht, mr busuttil, mr sippel, mr sargentini, mr svensson, mr paška, mr de rossa and others. i want to say that we obviously cannot accept an indiscriminate mass transfer, whatever the purpose. it's not about that. this is data requested exclusively for the purposes of preventing, investigating and prosecuting terrorist offences and terrorist financing and, in addition, for individualised purposes in relation to someone who is reasonably believed to have links, relationships or financing with terrorism. the data transfer is therefore not a mass transfer; the data transfer is clearly delimited by the target and the subject. and there will also be a european authority through which these data are requested and then there will be monitoring, mainly by the commission, of the use of these data and of the operation of the agreement that is signed. i therefore believe that there is a framework which can perfectly answer the concerns that have been raised here on this matter. the retention period has also been discussed. the data retention period is set at around five years, because it is clear that for efficiency reasons it is necessary to retain such data for a minimum period of time. now, it has to be clear that it will be as short as possible and as long as it takes for the objective, no more. the objective, the need for the retention of that data, must always be absolutely specified, because otherwise it would be meaningless, always with an objective and in relation to a particular subject. they have also shown their concern about the rights of access, information and rectification. mr coelho, for example, who is not here at the moment, has expressed this quite carefully. i should like to say that the negotiating directives are in line with the mandate proposal made by commissioner malmström in that these rights are going to be guaranteed. the rights of information, of access, of rectification are going to be guaranteed and have to be guaranteed in the agreement that is signed. the principle of necessity and proportionality will be guaranteed in the negotiating directives and in the agreement that is finally signed. the possibility of appeal, administrative appeal and judicial appeal will be ensured, without discrimination on grounds of nationality or any other grounds. so, in relation to the concerns of the members, and of mrs bozkurt and mrs vergiat, that is going to be ensured. and, furthermore, there is going to be absolute reciprocity. this is one of the issues that was most emphasized in the previous debate that we all remember. there will be absolute reciprocity with respect to the united states. and this is another feature of these negotiating directives which the council will adopt and which coincide with what you have said here, coincide with the draft resolution proposed by mrs hennis-plasschaert. i would like to stress the council's absolute commitment to the adoption of a mandate that protects the fundamental rights of european citizens, that applies them and is absolutely loyal to and in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union - which is in the treaty of lisbon - and with the european convention on human rights which the european union is proposing to sign in the coming months and which is one of the objectives with which this new political stage of the union has been launched.
member of the commission. − madam president, i think this has indeed been a very constructive debate. we have listened carefully and are taking due notice of everything that has been said. the council answered quite a lot of the questions that were raised, and i will just add a few things because it is important that we get as much clarity as possible. there will be an eu review team. they will have the right to review random samples to ensure that the data has been taken in a way that is respected according to the agreement. there must be a reasonable belief that the target of the search is a terrorist or someone financing terrorism. we also must remember that each and every search of tftp data is verified by a swift scrutineer and by an independent judicial authority before it is given out. the eu review team will also have access to this information. the agreement will ensure that eu citizens have access to non-discriminatory administrative and judicial rights. exactly how this will be specified is, of course, part of the negotiations, so i cannot be more specific on this. but it is – as the council also said – a very important part of the negotiation. we will have to find a solution to this, and as regards rectification and access. data will not be transferred to third countries – only relevant leads analysis but not mass data – and it will only be for terrorism purposes. the whole deal is only for terrorism purposes. the agreement will also ensure that eu nationals, via their data protection authorities, have the right to know that the rights of the data subject have been duly respected. the use requests for data are already targeted when it comes to bulk data. there has to be a suspected terrorist that can only be searched. so only a fraction of swift data will be transferred and only a very small proportion of that will be accessed. the rest will remain anonymous. we will seek to reduce and explore the possibility of reducing and fine-tuning the definition in order to have the volume still further reduced but there are already legally binding rules that would prevent any access to that data unless there is reasonable suspicion. the eu review team will verify a representative sample – as i said – and if there are any breaches of the agreement it can be immediately interrupted by the european union. so i think that we can act swiftly and that we can have a good agreement. there is the security gap issue that we have to take into consideration but, of course, there are also many questions that have to be answered concerning data protection and the other issues that you have raised. the americans have shown a very open attitude so far. they are ready to work with us as quickly as possible but also to be creative and to find answers to our questions. i know that a team from the european parliament will travel next week and you will be able to put questions and hopefully have more answers then. the other track in parallel to this is, of course, whether we should have another solution at european level, whether we should have an eu tftp or create some new authority. that is a very important discussion. it needs to be explored in depth within europe. of course that will not be part of the negotiation. we must make sure that, should this happen, the americans will help and there will be reciprocity, but we must figure that out. the commission is willing to participate, to be innovative and to put forward proposals, but that is for the member states to decide. i know that the european parliament is very active, and i am looking forward to having these discussions with you. so this is a parallel discussion. also in parallel there is the work done by my colleague, vice-president viviane reding, who is already starting to draft a mandate for a long-term data protection agreement for all the agreements that we have with the united states. of course, this is also something that has to be put into the picture. finally, the volcano in iceland is, of course, something that has created a lot of travel problems for many people all around the world and it makes it impossible for you to vote. i very much deplore that, but you can be sure that – the presidency is here, i am here, our services are here – we have taken due account of the debate. we have seen the draft resolution and that is signed by four political groups. we will communicate that to the ministers. if we postpone the decision in the council, we will lose two important weeks of negotiations. i said earlier that the americans are willing. they are constructive and they want to embark on this, but it will not be easy. it will be a difficult negotiation and we need the time. we want to get this done as soon as possible but also as well as possible. if we want the european parliament to be able to vote on it before the summer recess, we must take a decision so that we can start the negotiations as soon as possible. so please be understanding about this. i do want to reassure you that both the presidency and the commission have listened extremely carefully to your views and, as the presidency said, we will take account of the debate here and communicate it to the ministers on friday.
in writing. the new swift mandate for the eu-us agreement on the terrorist financing tracking programme is all the more welcome as the council and the commission have learned from the past and have included in the negotiations parliament's strong demand that data protection be held to a higher standard. this transfer of financial messaging data from the eu to the us must however be firmly negotiated with the us authorities. the transfer of collective data must be avoided and the technical means must be insisted on to allow the transfer of individual data, only of suspects. i hope that this agreement will not surprise the eu in the future and that it will be made clear before the agreement is signed that the eu has the right to obtain information from the us database and that the possibility of transferring data to third countries is excluded. this transfer must also guarantee the protection and rights of the citizen, in particular with regard to access and rectification of data, as they appear in national and european legislation. last but not least, the right of european citizens to object should personal data be misused needs to be clarified.
the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens. the treaty of lisbon reinforces previously existing provisions by giving the european charter of fundamental rights legal and binding force. any processing of personal data must be carried out in compliance with directives 46/1995, 58/2002 and 24/2006. the european parliament therefore calls for any international agreement concerning personal data to be concluded under conditions where the signatory parties have in force provisions similar to those in the abovementioned directives. in the information society, and especially in the context of the development of broadband communications infrastructure, the data storage and processing centre may be located in different locations or even countries. we therefore ask that any agreement concerning personal data require that both the storage and the processing of personal data take place only in locations where there are legal provisions similar to those in european legislation. and one last thing, madam president, how do european citizens give their consent and, above all, under what conditions?
we must agree that the ban on cyanide in mining should become a priority in the environmental problem in romania, but also in europe. with more than 25 major accidents and spills worldwide between 1998 and 2006, it is becoming increasingly clear that cyanide poses a continuing environmental hazard for decades to come. these mining accidents raise a number of questions about the practices and enforcement of cyanide management regulations, even if there are good intentions at the corporate level. moreover, the difficulty of managing the transport, storage and use of cyanide, associated with the deficiencies in the operation and maintenance of the settling ponds, as well as bad weather can lead to explosive situations, devastating the environment. alternatives to cyanide mining exist but are not promoted by the mining industry, although eu-wide regulations are used to actively promote new emerging technologies that are safe. in november 2005, members of the european parliament and member states adopted the so-called mining waste directive. this directive is an ineffective legislative instrument and is the result of strong pressure from the mining industry and concerns expressed by central and eastern european countries about the elimination of any requirement and responsibility to clean up old and abandoned mining sites. some of the shortcomings of the directive become apparent when we consider that, for example, it does not deal with emissions of cyanide into the air. take the mining development at red montana, alba county. if the mine opens, it's estimated that it will release 134.2 kilograms of cyanide into the air per day, and that's every day of normal operation. this means an annual emission volume of 48 983 kg or 783 728 kg for the mine's 16-year life. there is also no european air quality legislation for such emissions. in this context, it is our moral duty to future generations and in the spirit of the global trend to ban cyanide mining, to support this legislative proposal.
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner for the balanced position she has taken in opening this debate. technologies that use cyanide are dangerous. but other technologies, such as the production of nuclear technology, are equally dangerous. to prevent accidents there are regulations, standards and rules. we don't have to ban, we have to follow the rules. the resolution mentions 30 accidents in the last 25 years, avoiding specifying how many of these occurred in europe, because they were extremely few, in countries that were not members of the union at the time of the accident. moreover, following the unfortunate accident in 2000, the commission tightened up the regulations. cyanide technology is used to make a variety of products, including pharmaceuticals and vitamins. the resolution only discusses mining and, in particular, gold production. why would you do that? because the problem isn't really cyanide, it's gold. it calls not only for the technology to be banned, but for any ongoing projects to be halted until the alleged ban is imposed. i don't know of any other prospective gold mining project in europe other than the one in romania. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to read the text of the resolution carefully. references such as 'large future rainfall increases the risk of leakage' or 'mining offers few and low-prospect jobs - only 16 years' or 'human negligence may occur because some member states lack the skills to enforce the law'. i do not think that such references have a place in a text of the european parliament. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to assess both the reasons and the consequences and to vote against a resolution which undermines our credibility with the commission and reduces the chances of taking account, not only in this case but in general, of the proposals contained in the resolutions voted in the european parliament.
in my opinion, the initiative to ban the use of cyanide-based technology in gold mining is unjustified. there are several european legislative acts in this area, as mentioned earlier, which have regulated the conditions of use of cyanide more and more strictly, starting precisely from the unfortunate accident mentioned earlier, at baia mare, which led to a regrettable contamination. our efforts should therefore focus on the rigorous application of this legislative framework at national level in each member state that is in this situation. the use of cyanide in gold mining is a technology that has been used for over 100 years in an environmentally safe and efficient gold mining process. in fact, 90 percent of the gold mined worldwide in the last 20 years has been mined using this technology and not some alternative. technical rules for the use and neutralisation of cyanide have led to the minimisation of risks to the environment and human health. it should also be stressed, i think, that a correct application of the precautionary principle does not mean an emotional reaction that would result in the banning of a technology that has proven its usefulness and whose risks are perfectly known and controllable. the environmental risks arising from the alternative use of cyanide-like agents should also be considered in the application of the precautionary principle. or, experts say that the use of such alternative agents presents greater risks than the use of cyanide.
the authorisation or prohibition of mining projects using cyanide raises sensitive issues in some member states. first of all, we must make it clear that the solution to the problem cannot be a captive of political intentions and interests. the risk of pollution is a matter for experts, and when there is a risk of pollution, it is the responsibility of political leaders to protect the interests of citizens. at this point, the issue goes beyond environmental considerations, since pollution can endanger the health of the population, which is contrary to the right of eu citizens to a high level of health protection (article 35 of the charter). in this respect, there is no such thing as a small risk or a big risk. when the health of citizens is at risk, political debate is futile and the authorities must act against the potential polluter. although the use of cyanide is prohibited in some member states and permitted in others, member states should consult each other and seek partnership. the commission should take a position on this issue and initiate legislation that excludes the possibility of harm to the health of eu citizens.
i agree that all measures must be taken at european union level to reduce the risks posed by the use of toxic and dangerous substances such as cyanide. banning them, however, need not be the only solution. toxic and dangerous substances are used in many other industrial processes, not just mining. in addition to the great bay accident in 2000, there were two other major accidents in the mining sector: one in spain in 1998 and the other in sweden in 2003, both of greater magnitude. the causes were similar, however: the collapse of the settlement ponds. over 90% of the world's gold and silver production is produced by cyanide metal extraction technology. the unconditional ban on this technology and its replacement by technologies based on substances with lower environmental risks but extremely costly and low yields means that the country in question will virtually give up the production of these metals, with the associated economic and social effects.
one chemical that gets out of control and into the environment causes serious problems, but we have over 10 million chemicals. we have more places where they work with chemicals. we could discuss millions of potentially dangerous situations in the european parliament. sure, cyanide is toxic, too, but i'm a chemist, and i can tell you that we have a big problem in the world: less than 18% of cyanide is used in mining, with the rest being used to make pharmaceuticals, consumer goods in the cosmetics industry and many other fields. but the substances used on our planet are thousands of times more toxic than cyanide. in general, chemicals, if they get into the water, destroy life. we have many dead rivers around the globe that haven't been reached by cyanide. the dead sea is lifeless because it has a lot of sodium chloride, which is salt. all chemicals must be used in accordance with 2010 environmental protection technologies and standards. romania, as a european state, has definitely entered this path. all the countries of the world must do the same.
mr president, with all due respect can i say that this debate is largely misdirected. the subject before us is a very curious matter. it reignites an accident that took place 10 years ago. why? why has there been this long silence? and why now? why a debate now? if we follow this pattern we could and should ban anything and everything that can be linked to a past accident. i find the whole matter unjustified. i think it uses the environment as a screen and it is based on the mass fears so fashionable nowadays. in my opinion, and i think in truth, it is just a poor political plot.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this debate. i will of course make sure that mr potočnik gets a full account of it. we share your concerns about cyanide. it is of course a very dangerous toxin and we are aware of that. but let me assure you that the commission has drawn conclusions from the terrible accident that happened 10 years ago in baia mare. the directive that we have very recently put in place includes a lot of limitations, requirements, restrictions and demands, in order to provide maximum protection as regards the effects on the environment and human health. the directive will also reduce the likelihood of such an accident happening again and, should there be an accident, will reduce the possible impact to a great extent. it is therefore extremely important that the directive is duly implemented. given the very stringent requirements of the mining waste directive and the absence of adequate alternatives today, a general ban on cyanide use for gold extraction does not, for the moment, seem appropriate. however we are following the issue, we are studying the latest technology development and there will be an evaluation in 2012. we must increase the recycling rates of the products containing precious metals in the eu, in order to reduce reliance on gold mining altogether. thank you for this debate. mr potočnik will of course be at your disposal to answer further questions on this. the commission is taking this very seriously. if you study the directive, you will see that many of your concerns are already there. let us help to push the member states to really implement it in full because that would considerably reduce the risks.
in writing. on january 30, 2000, the dam of the waste settling pond owned by the company aurul in baia mare, romania, ruptured, allowing the discharge of about 100,000 cubic meters of contaminated water containing 100 tons of cyanide as well as heavy metals. the spill has cut off drinking water to 2.5 million people, affecting three countries. the somes river had cyanide concentrations 700 times the legal limit. water life has been completely destroyed over a distance of several hundred kilometres. we must not forget the details of this disaster, which has become an international symbol of pollution. he demonstrates that despite the law and the controls, such accidents are possible at any time. dangerous substances have no place in mining if we want to prevent catastrophes. rosia montana is planning to build the largest surface gold mine in europe, based on the use of cyanide. the next one? the destruction of the environment, the disappearance of the village, the displacement of the inhabitants, the churches and cemeteries, the condemnation of precious relics dating back to the roman and pre-roman periods. history teaches us a lesson. we all have a duty to understand them. it is absolutely necessary to ban the use of cyanide in mining altogether in the eu to prevent human and environmental tragedies.
in writing. − i support the position of the epp rapporteur on this matter and the commission's proposal on the fight against tax fraud in the european union. i believe that this proposal can improve administrative cooperation in intra-community transactions in the calculation of value added tax and the control of the correct application of this tax. it remains to be seen whether the commission's proposal to extend the eurocanet network and to set up a new structure, eurofisc, which would operate on a voluntary basis and would not have legal personality, will lead to a more effective fight against tax fraud at union level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a european strategy to combat tax fraud and vat evasion. i believe that a european-wide mechanism for combating fraud is needed, because the scale of the phenomenon means that counter-measures can no longer be managed exclusively at internal level. according to the international vat association, the annual vat losses across the european union are estimated at between eur 60 billion and eur 100 billion. i therefore call for close cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states and the european commission to avoid the harmful consequences that tax fraud can have on national budgets and on competition.
in writing. − the commission's proposal to simplify, modernise and harmonise the rules on vat invoices brings improvements, in particular with regard to the provisions allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to use simplified invoices and ensuring that tax authorities accept electronic tax invoices under the same conditions as traditional ones. in this respect, the rapporteur's proposal to give the tax authorities the possibility to impose additional requirements, such as sequential numbers for simplified invoices, provides a simple safeguard, which preserves the improvements brought by the commission. in this area, which concerns the common system of value added tax and rules on invoicing, the commission should support member states that need technical assistance for the modernisation of e-government, either through the community programme fiscalis 2013 or through the use of the structural funds. i believe that the rapporteur has brought amendments which improve the commission's proposal, which is why i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. - the adoption of this report is welcome in many respects, but i would like to refer - especially as rapporteur for the opinion and author of some essential amendments - only to the most important of them, both of which have the concrete result of reducing the administrative burden on economic agents. first, the obligation on member states to implement a cash accounting scheme for smes (defined at european level as firms with a turnover of less than €2,000,000) will be a welcome stimulus for the business environment. this is because an economic operator is currently in a position to pay vat on an invoice at the time of issue, but the collection of that invoice (and the related vat) may take months or even never take place. in all cases, however, the principle that the deductibility of vat is inextricably linked to its payment remains fundamental. second, e-invoices are given the same legal value as paper invoices, so that invoices sent by e-mail are likely to replace current paper invoices, thus facilitating both the activity of issuing and transmitting invoices and the activity of managing and storing them.
in writing. − the most important objective of this directive is to eliminate inconsistencies in previous legislation by aligning technical requirements with international rules on the transport of dangerous goods. in addition, the proposal aims to simplify and rationalise certain provisions, in particular those relating to conformity assessment procedures. the proposal also includes provisions on equipment for transport operations on the internal market, establishing a general framework for the marketing of products on the european single market. i voted for this report because i believe that the proposal will ensure, once adopted, a high level of safety for transportable pressure equipment and its users, and that correct implementation at member state level will ensure increased protection of the environment and the health of citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on community guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network because it envisages the construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure, ports, waterways and airports. among the priority projects he is considering is the kurtici-brasov railway. i welcome the appointment of a committee to assist the commission in the implementation and development of the guidelines set out in this decision.
in writing. − during the plenary session we voted on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on community guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network. it was a technical proposal, the actual revision of the guidelines being in preparation. it is estimated that they will be completed by the end of next year. i think this is a very important opportunity to reaffirm the importance of transport policy at european level in the current context of the debate on the europe 2020 objectives. member states in general and romania in particular, as a country still in need of investment in transport infrastructure, must be aware that this transport policy is in the process of being re-formulated in line with the new challenges. the ageing of the population and the special mobility needs of the elderly, social migration, climate change are just some of the elements that require transport policy to be properly designed. in parallel, the development of the eu danube strategy during this period is a perfect framework for making the most of eu inland waterway transport.
in writing. − last year, the commission proposed amending the structural funds regulation (1083/2003) to provide economic incentives to member states seriously affected by the economic crisis. among other things, the commission proposed a derogation from the principle of co-financing by introducing a temporary option for member states with cash flow problems to claim 100% reimbursement for the financing of measures eligible for the european social fund. the council rejected this proposal but agreed to extend the deadline for calculating the amounts ex officio decommitted from the annual budget commitments for the total annual contribution for 2007 in order to improve the absorption of funds for certain operational programmes. i believe that the rapporteur's proposal to reconstitute, as a transitional measure, the appropriations for the 2007 financial year for the european social fund assistance funds, following the disengagement, is justified in view of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which would prevent the application of article 93 (1) of regulation no 1083/2006 in its current form.
in writing. − the amendment to the regulation on the implementation of the structural and cohesion funds is a measure to support the eu countries in the crisis period and, in particular, responds to their requirements for simplification of the management of the funds. i believe that the new provisions will also help to reduce the risk of losing unused funds quickly enough, given that it gives more time for projects that have not yet been approved or implemented within the specified period. i also hope that these simplified rules will come into force as soon as possible so that the member states and, in particular, the regions concerned can benefit from this possibility of eu funding and the public authorities in these regions can continue to invest in european projects despite budgetary constraints.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the kirilov report, which i supported by my vote. i consider it useful that this report has been adopted so soon after the commission's communication, since the measures it contains will speed up the financing process to stimulate the economic recovery of the regions, which is very much needed in this period of crisis. the report is in line with the council's guidelines on changes to the rules on financial management of esf co-financed programmes and on programme implementation, with a view to facilitating, simplifying and clarifying the rules governing cohesion policy. for romania, this means increasing the volume of advance payments for the european social fund and the cohesion fund; more time for the use of european funds by "unlocking" them so that member states can reuse funds under the programme; simplifying and clarifying the measures needed in the implementation of the structural funds, both at the stage of submitting funding applications and at the stage of annual reporting on the implementation of a programme; agreeing on a single threshold of €50 million defining a major project that will be eligible for funding from several european programmes.
in writing. − the major challenges facing the european union as a result of the economic and financial crisis have led to the launching of priority actions to adapt national economies to the new situation. i voted in favour of the report because i strongly support the provision of additional economic incentives to member states which have been severely affected by the economic crisis and the simplification of financial management issues. all countries could benefit from deferred disengagement, and the most disadvantaged countries would benefit from additional advances. these countries are estonia, hungary, romania, latvia and lithuania. further clarification of the rules on cohesion policy and simplification of procedures will have a positive impact on the pace of programme implementation. this is particularly important as cohesion policy is the most powerful instrument in providing assistance to the real economy.
in writing. − in view of the economic and financial crisis, it is necessary to make optimal use of measures to simplify certain procedures specific to access to european funds, such as:- granting an additional financing advance for 2010 to member states affected by the crisis, ensuring a constant flow of liquidity and facilitating payments to beneficiaries in the implementation phase of programmes; - the extension of the deadline for calculating the annual automatic budgetary decommitment of the 2007 contribution will improve the absorption of funds mobilised for certain operational programmes and ensure adequate support for job-creation and retention initiatives; - member states which received support in 2009 under the legislation establishing a medium-term financial assistance mechanism for balance of payments may, under certain conditions, benefit in 2010 from 2% of the cf contribution and 4% of the esf contribution to the operational programme. these measures will contribute to the development of a flexible, inclusive labour market, to a significant improvement in the positive impact of european funding on the economy as a whole, but in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises and the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these resolutions tabled by the conference of presidents, which call on the commission to submit new proposals on those dossiers which were pending in parliament at the time of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and whose procedure has become obsolete. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a council recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer's disease, through joint programming of research activities, i support the invitation by the conference of presidents of the european commission to submit a new proposal on these dossiers, so that parliament can be consulted in an appropriate manner in its institutional role, including that conferred by the provisions of the new treaty.
in writing. − the european digital library, europeana, is a direct, unique and multilingual portal to europe's cultural heritage, which will in future enable a large number of readers to have access to rare or old documents from europe's heritage whose preservation makes them difficult to consult. in the motion for a resolution voted today, i asked the european commission to launch a special media and online campaign to promote europeana to students and teachers, focusing on the use of the digital resources offered by this portal for educational purposes. the europeana portal should become one of the reference points for education and research, bringing young europeans closer to their cultural heritage and contributing to achieving cross-cultural cohesion in the eu. in this resolution, the european parliament encourages member states to make equal contributions to the content of the europeana project and to step up their efforts in providing works to national libraries and cultural institutions so that all europeans have full access to their own cultural heritage.
in writing. − following the positive vote on the report 'europeana: the next steps', and in my capacity as rapporteur for the itre opinion, i welcome its completion and hope that its recommendations will be taken up by the commission. following the debate in the itre committee on the report, topics such as the organisation of it and the governance of the europeana website were discussed. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the internet in the context of the european year of the environment. some of these issues were included in the report of the main committee, cult, and this makes me hope that we have succeeded in obtaining a full report. however, i believe that the debate should continue on certain aspects that have not been fully taken over, such as the governance of the site, the methods of funding and especially its organisation in the form of a single database rather than a portal. i hope that the recommendations we have set out, together with the commission's reflection on the above problems, will be translated into a successful project. europeana can become a successful european union project as long as it is built on the union's values and ideals and is the centre of european cultural information.
in writing. − the europeana project, the digital library of the european union, should be seen as an initiative to create a european cultural area through wide access to european cultural heritage for citizens. unfortunately, although launched in november 2008, the project has not progressed, primarily due to copyright obstacles, but also to low funding. the ep report, in the final form adopted today, makes useful recommendations for the future management of this project. first, the type of funding needs to be revised, in the direction of public-private partnerships and contributions from the member states, which are not homogeneous at present. secondly, through this report we are drawing attention to the fact that only by digitising works on a large scale, but also by finding immediate solutions for the use of copyrighted works, can real results be achieved. an important contribution that this report can make to the existing framework is the proposed regulations on the viewing of works, which should be free of charge, while downloading should be at an acceptable price.
in writing. − i consider that progress has been made in animal welfare through the implementation of the 2006-2010 action plan, with most of the measures included in this plan being implemented satisfactorily. as a member of the committee that oversees public health and food safety, i particularly appreciated the implementation of actions to reduce the adverse effects on human health caused by the use of antibiotics in animal feed, following their ban in 2006. i voted in favour of the report for these reasons too. however, i would stress that the future action plan should include more measures to support eu farmers and to improve the application of the current rules for the transport of animals in the member states.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest importer of agricultural products, and encouraging domestic production with minimal impact on climate change is healthy. the conclusions of the report, which was debated in the european parliament on wednesday, show that imports of agricultural products from third countries have a much greater negative impact on the environment than domestic production, which is subject to stricter rules to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, which are conducive to climate change. agriculture has been and will remain the world's main source of food. according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, agricultural production must increase by 70 percent in the next 40 years to meet the needs of the world's population. the european union must start to design policies or move urgently to implement existing ones to prevent a long-term crisis. these policies must be combined with ambitious targets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions with a negative impact on the environment, because we are in a vicious circle: according to experts, agriculture without considering the impact on the environment will cause global warming, which will lead to major difficulties in farming in the long term.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that agriculture is a productive sector that is affected by the consequences of climate change and the pressure exerted by it, but which is also directly linked to the objectives of mitigating the effects of climate change, either by contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, conserving and ensuring the proper management of water resources, or by stimulating the production and decentralisation of renewable sustainable energy sources. in this respect, eastern european countries with strong agricultural sectors can benefit from the development of the biofuels industry, which contributes to increasing rural income and creating green jobs (e.g. 750,000 jobs in renewable energy in the agricultural sector are expected to be created by 2020).
in writing. − i believe that the application of uniform criteria simplifies the implementation of the payment scheme for areas with natural handicaps at eu level, increases transparency and ensures uniform treatment of the beneficiaries of these support schemes. it is of paramount importance to concentrate this support on the areas most affected by land abandonment. the exercise should also take into account the following: the absence of additional costs and the impact of the boundary change on areas where agriculture plays a central role in the local economy. in this connection, i believe that it is appropriate that in the areas affected by the boundary changes there should be measures aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and promoting diversification.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which addresses the problems facing farmers in many eu countries. i would like to stress in particular the importance of an amendment which i have initiated in the commission and i thank all my colleagues who have supported it. the amendment i am referring to is that the delimitation of areas with natural handicaps, in order to be relevant, should be based on homogeneous ecological territories and not on lau 2, as is the case at present. i would also like to point out that i think it would be appropriate to introduce in the commission's future proposal flexible rules to allow aid to be granted to farmers in areas with a small area of natural handicaps, which are administratively located in units which do not meet the criteria laid down.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on a new digital agenda for europe 2015. i am, because i believe that europe must play a leading role in innovation in the field of communication and information technology and that we must therefore accelerate investment in this direction. unfortunately, today europe risks falling behind asia, if we look at just a few indicators, such as the average data transfer speed or the fact that although broadband communications are available to over 90% of the population of the european union, they have only reached consumers in 50% of households. the commission must present a clear and ambitious agenda on this issue, which is not just a vision, a vision paper. there are solutions that we need to support, such as the use of open source software, which would allow us to accelerate software innovation through open contributions and reduce costs for businesses that use these programs. at the same time, we must take steps to reduce red tape in the eu framework programme and to increase our international competitiveness.
in writing. − i appreciate the effort made by mrs del castillo in preparing this report, as well as the input of my colleagues. the digital agenda and the development of the ict single market are among our priorities and those of the presidency. in this regard, i welcome the emphasis on digital literacy among young people, as they are the ones who use new technologies the most and must therefore do so in a safe and effective way. i would like to thank my colleagues for their support in my request to the commission to draw up a plan to promote new online businesses and to provide facilities, especially for those who have recently been made redundant. i am confident that my vote and that of my colleagues is an important step towards a comprehensive and effective approach to europe's digital future. i hope we will have the support of the commission in establishing clear rules in this area, both at european level and at member state level.
in writing. − the definition of a new digital agenda, 2015 eu, which is intended to be more competitive and innovative than the recently concluded strategy, i2010, requires a high level of attention, especially with regard to educational and cultural aspects. therefore, as rapporteur for the opinion of the cult committee, i supported this report, particularly in its points on the role of information and communication technologies in the training of young people and their preparation for the labour market. in the text proposed and adopted, we stressed both the importance of familiarising children with basic ict knowledge from the primary school level and the added value that online education can bring to our changing society. in the same vein, we have seen that young people are the most receptive segment of the population to ict and that their specialisation in this area is necessary and can make an important contribution to reducing the level of unemployment in the eu, in line with the objectives of strategy 2020. last but not least, we reaffirmed the need to develop the europeana project within the framework of agenda 2015.eu, under conditions of implementation that guarantee its visibility, but also ensure the fulfilment of its intrinsic cultural mission.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report which will contribute to the development of a proposal for a comprehensive strategy for 2015 on information and communication technologies (ict). i believe that the way out of the economic crisis depends to a large extent on its ability to facilitate the widespread and effective application of information and communication technologies in the business environment. smes can be the catalyst for europe's economic recovery and the european commission needs to strengthen in the future the support measures for smes to use ict tools to increase their productivity. in today's vote, i support the proposal in this report to develop a digital plan to promote online businesses, with a focus on providing alternatives to those who have recently been made redundant in the context of the financial crisis. such an initiative could be implemented by providing free internet access and free consultation.
in writing. - a vote for discharge does not mean that everything is perfect. i think things are moving in the right direction, but too slowly. the number of errors has decreased, but we are not yet at the so-called "tolerable level of error". i would stress the need to make national management declarations compulsory for all member states, as parliament has repeatedly called for. i object to the system of signals (red, yellow, green) only for romania and bulgaria, it would be a discriminatory measure. there are shortcomings in many other member states and monitoring rules need to be common.
in writing. − the strengthening of the strategic bi-regional partnership between the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean, concluded in 1999, must be a priority of the european union's external agenda. while significant progress has been made in developing bilateral relations between the eu and latin america over the past decade, there is still more to be done, with the ultimate objective of the partnership being the creation in 2015 of a euro-latin american area of comprehensive interregional cooperation in the political, economic, commercial, social and cultural fields, guaranteeing the sustainable development of both regions. the european parliament voted today in favour of the future adoption of a euro-latin american charter for peace and security, which, on the basis of the united nations charter and related international law, should include strategies and guidelines for common political and security action. i also believe that the fight against climate change, which affects the poorest people in the world the most, must become the key element of the eu-latin america strategy, with both sides having to make considerable efforts to reach a common negotiating position in the debates leading up to the united nations climate change conference, which will take place at the end of the year in mexico.
in writing. − the resolution adopted today by the european parliament's plenary is an important signal that the union has a very good understanding of its global role. latin america is the favourite tourist destination of many europeans, but for europe it means much more. latin america may suffer from democracy, judging by european standards and principles. the european parliament recently debated a resolution on the flagrant human rights violations in cuba, resulting in the deaths of people exercising their right to freedom of expression. these are dramatic situations that must never happen again. but the european union's experience shows that a relationship built over time on friendly and diplomatic terms is far more productive in the long run. the european union will succeed in becoming the exporter of democratic principles it wants to be, if it takes a constructive approach. latin america is a huge continent that cannot be ignored economically or socially, and the fact that the european investment bank has already been present on the south american continent for a long time, offering the chance for long-term investment, is a significant signal. the resolution adopted today constitutes a clear mandate to the eu high representative in addressing relations with latin america.
in writing. − i support the resolution's message on promoting coordination of the positions of the countries of the two continents on how to implement the millennium development goals (mdgs), especially since the mdgs summit will take place in september this year. we need a common base now, especially as there is a delay in reaching the targets proposed for 2015, especially on fighting poverty. particularly in the context of the global recession, investment needs to be concentrated in poorer countries and in the most vulnerable segments of the population, so that they can benefit from new jobs and the conditions for social integration.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, expresses its concern at the continued visa requirement by the canadian authorities for romanian, bulgarian and czech citizens and calls for the swift abolition of this requirement. the maintenance of visas for the citizens of these member states is contrary to the principle of free movement, creating unjustified disparities and inequalities, as citizens of the european union should enjoy equal and fair treatment. although the 2009 eu-canada summit in prague reaffirmed the partners' shared objective of ensuring the free and secure movement of people between the eu and canada, it is 2010 and nothing has changed. i am confident that in the near future the canadian authorities will make every effort to eliminate these visas. together with my colleagues in the european parliament, i will continue the work begun to allow romanian, bulgarian and czech citizens to move freely as soon as possible.
in writing. − citizens of three eu member states still need visas for canada. the czech republic is also among the countries that have introduced the visa requirement, due to the large influx of roma. in this context, there is a need for closer cooperation between the eu member states to solve the problems of the roma community and between the member states and canada to create a more efficient and transparent system of information on visa conditions in order to reduce the rejection rate. the canadian asylum system also needs to be reviewed and the merit of the resolution in this regard lies in its explicit request to the canadian side to take action to end the visa requirement.
in writing. − canada is one of the european union's longest-standing partners and this year's summit is important for continuing and strengthening this close bilateral cooperation in all areas. i voted for the joint resolution because it reflects, in a concise and objective way, the positive vision of our future cooperation. ensuring reciprocity in bilateral relations is a basic principle of the european union and i hope that in the near future canada will lift the visa requirement for romanian, czech and bulgarian citizens, thus ensuring equal and fair treatment for all european union citizens. i also welcome the progress made so far towards an eu-canada trade agreement and hope that this year's meeting will give impetus to its completion. given the current economic and climate context, i must stress the need for close collaboration to identify alternatives to traditional energy sources that respect the specificities of each country, as both the eu and canada are committed to the development and use of low-carbon technologies. at the same time, cooperation in the field of energy, climate and maritime affairs in the arctic must be promoted.
in writing. − by its vote today, the european parliament has shown its openness to a new agreement on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data under the terrorist finance tracking programme and reiterated that any new agreement in this area must respect the new legal framework established by the treaty of lisbon. the fight against terrorism remains a priority for the eu, and fruitful cooperation with the us, including, inter alia, the exchange of data and information, is an important prerequisite for preventing future terrorist attacks. i believe it is essential that this exchange of data be strictly limited to information required for the purpose of combating terrorism, since the collective transfer of data is a departure from the principles on which european legislation and practice are based. that is why, in today's resolution, i have explicitly called on the commission and the council to address this issue appropriately in the negotiations with the us that will take place in the near future and to examine with the us partners how to establish a legally viable and transparent procedure to authorise the transfer and extraction of relevant data.
in writing. − romania supported, as a nation state, the adoption of the swift agreement, but the european parliament considered that, in its first form negotiated by the representatives of the commission and the us administration, it infringed the rights of european citizens who were treated as bulk and not on a point of view, based on suspicions. it is important that the new agreement, negotiated in washington these days between representatives of the eu and the us congress, responds to the concerns of the european parliament. there is always the risk that the new version of the agreement will also be rejected if it continues to be at odds with the european charter of human rights. the european parliament is aware that this agreement is important for the security of europeans themselves. it is therefore clear that the objections of the meps are related to the substance and not to the form of the agreement. the european parliament has acquired greater decision-making powers with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is only right that this institution should use its powers and look after the interests of the citizens of the european community. but as long as the spirit of the positions expressed by the european legislator is preserved in the future form of the agreement, it will be adopted. the fight against terrorism and the swift identification of suspicious bank transfers remain as high as ever on the union's list of priorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and i would like to reiterate that eu-us cooperation in the fight against terrorism, as well as the conclusion of a specific eu-us agreement in this regard, is of major importance. this agreement must be kept permanently before parliament. the council and the commission must inform the european legislative body throughout all stages of its negotiation and conclusion. the ep's position on this subject has been expressed on several occasions. another key aspect of the resolution is that any request for data transfer must be approved by a european judicial authority. the transfer of data must be justified and transparent, and citizens must be guaranteed rights such as access, rectification, erasure, compensation and compensation for damage to their privacy. i want to emphasize the need to find a solution to limit the transfer of data, allowing only the exchange of data required for persons suspected of terrorism. it is important that the principles of reciprocity and proportionality in the agreement are respected, as well as that the agreement is terminated immediately in the event of non-compliance with the obligations assumed. i am confident that the jha council will take into account the recommendations contained in this resolution.
in writing. - i am not a hungarian mep to defend the interests of this country and therefore to support mr ader, nor an employee of an ngo. i am a romanian mep and i defend the interests of my country. as such, i have a duty to demand a study on the impact of using this technology before i can demand a ban on cyanide in mining. the initiators of the resolution had a duty to offer an alternative that was economically feasible and less toxic than the one they demanded to be completely banned. following the statement of the european commission representative cecilia malmström two weeks ago and the meeting with representatives of the local community (including mayors of the roşia montană area), i felt that before a complete ban on this technology, a detailed study should be carried out and all existing alternatives analysed. before making a decision, we must consider all the aspects involved: environmental protection, job creation, attracting investment, and the lack of alternatives to mining for the population of the entire area. in conclusion, i voted against this resolution and tabled two amendments because it reflects the view and interests of one party only.
in writing. - i am a signatory to the amendment to delete paragraph 4 of the draft resolution voted today. i therefore voted in favour of this amendment. i voted against the motion for a resolution on a number of grounds: we cannot ask the european commission to ban cyanide-based gold mining technology for some member states, such as romania, which has significant, untapped resources; the rosia montana project deserves support for its economic and social effects and in full agreement with the restrictions on the protection of the environment and archaeological sites. as a member of the european parliament, i support the opportunity of this troubled area and i am convinced that the responsible national government authorities will negotiate a level of royalties capable of ensuring the recovery and protection of the rosia montana goldfield. romania, as a member state, has the right to exploit its deposits under safe environmental conditions, but also with economic and social results in proportion to the natural results it has.
in writing. - there are times when ecological welfare, heritage protection and the welfare of people in general succeed in prevailing even over economic and partisan interests. this resolution proves that. the european parliament has succeeded today in demonstrating that it is primarily concerned with the general interest and the welfare of the people. cyanide mining is a risk we cannot afford to take; its effects are irreversible. i do, however, support the idea of encouraging the industrial conversion of areas where cyanide mining has been banned, through appropriate financial support for clean industrial sectors, renewable energy and tourism.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the ban on cyanide-based mining by the end of 2011 for several reasons: stopping ongoing cyanide mining projects would seriously affect both the member states using this technology (finland, sweden, spain, romania, bulgaria, greece) and the member states producing cyanide (belgium, the united kingdom, the czech republic and germany). europe would become 100% dependent on imports of gold, a metal used in europe's precious metals industry, but also in the electronics industry. approximately 87% of the production of cyanide is used in other industrial sectors, outside the mining industry, in the manufacture of vitamins, jewellery, adhesives, electronic components for computers, flame retardants, cosmetics, nylon, paints, medicines, etc. there are technologies in economic activity that are harmful to human health or the environment. cyanide technology is one of them. to prevent negative impact, there are regulations and standards that allow such activities to be carried out safely. this principle also applies to mining technology. there are laws, they must be followed. we don't have the right to ban, we have the right to protect.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because the 2006 directive, which is in force, provides maximum protection for the environment and human health with regard to the use of cyanides in the mining industry. in view of the strict provisions of the mining waste directive and the absence of viable alternatives, a general ban on the use of cyanide in gold mining is not necessary.
sustainable economic growth also requires massive and coherent investment in the transport sector. the transport sector accounts for 10% of the eu's gross domestic product and represents over 10 million jobs. i therefore invite the european commission and the council to take into account, when finalising the eu 2020 strategy, the following highly relevant aspects in the field of transport: promoting research, development and innovation to achieve so-called green transport; strengthening the european objective of decarbonising transport through the use of alternative resources, electric cars, its, intelligent traffic management, including in the aviation sector; strengthening coordination in the field of infrastructure to strengthen the protection of the environment, the social conditions of workers and the safety and security of passengers. in specific areas, i would like to stress the following imperatives: urgent implementation of the single european sky in aviation; urgent achievement of interoperability in the railway sector; extension and improvement of road infrastructure and safety of european roads in road transport; achievement of convenience in inland ports and extension of motorways of the sea in maritime and inland waterway transport; urgent sustainable development of urban mobility. the european commission needs to take all these mobility issues into account, which must be one of the central elements of the eu 2020 strategy. the coordinated development of the transport sector is the key to sustainable development, the preservation and creation of stable jobs.
over the last two years, we have faced the worst economic crisis in the world. it is therefore vital that our efforts are better targeted to boost competitiveness, productivity and the potential for growth. the objectives of the strategy must be realistic and, for this reason, they must be defined in close correlation with the national objectives of the member states, which are themselves determined according to the priorities and specificities of each member state. i therefore welcome the idea of dividing the objectives set at community level into different national objectives. in a parliament resolution, i asked the commission to put forward new measures such as possible sanctions for member states that do not apply the strategy and incentives for those that do. the eu's funding should therefore be conditional on achieving results and being compatible with the objectives of the strategy, but we should not underestimate the importance of cohesion policy in achieving the eu's economic and development objectives. we must therefore examine the commission's proposals carefully, because a proposal such as the one to automatically suspend structural funds for member states with large budget deficits would be an unrealistic measure and totally at odds with the objectives of cohesion policy, namely to reduce disparities between member states.
today, in the european union, unemployment has reached 10 percent and among young people, 20 percent. this year, 1 may, the international workers' day, was a sad day, because there are 23 million unemployed in the european union. in order to secure jobs, we need to clearly define the areas in which the union must invest. only through education can we provide young people with the skills they need to have a job and a decent life. investment in agriculture will also enable the union to meet its basic needs for food and biofuels. investment in transport infrastructure is vital. this year we are revising the list of ten-t priority projects: the eu needs high-speed rail infrastructure to cover all eu capitals and major european cities, and to modernise its road, port and airport infrastructure. i believe it is a priority for the union to invest in the development of transport infrastructure in eastern europe. only then will we have a truly effective internal market. all these projects require billions of euros of financial resources, which will be returned to public budgets through taxes and, above all, through the jobs created and the economic development they generate. investments in energy infrastructure, energy efficiency and renewable energy will also reduce the eu's energy dependence and generate some 2.7 million new jobs by 2030. however, instead of investing in the smart cities initiative, we find that over €150 million of the european economic recovery plan has gone unspent. last but not least, the european union needs to invest in research and in the sustainable development of european industry. mr president, i would like to conclude by asking the commission and the council to set up an instrument similar to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support civil servants who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis.
i am convinced that europe 2020 will be a stronger europe economically and more innovative. i am convinced that we will emerge from the current economic and financial crisis because we have enormous potential in terms of innovative human workforce and natural resources, and i appreciate the commission's effort in presenting this communication to us. but i cannot help but mention cohesion policy and express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the path towards the lisbon strategy seems to have been changed. achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion involves more than just smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. through us and our elected officials, citizens are saying that they still need investment in infrastructure, access to services and development in all areas, no matter how remote they are. the priorities set for the period 2007-2013 have demonstrated the need to improve infrastructure and support economic competitiveness in the convergence areas. the interdependence of economies requires cohesion and security [...] (the president interrupts)
in writing. it is imperative that both the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy support the european strategy for employment and growth. i believe that the cap must provide immediate responses to the effects of the economic crisis on agricultural enterprises, such as farmers' lack of access to credit, constraints on agricultural incomes and rising unemployment in rural areas; it must continue to provide solutions to the threat of land abandonment, depopulation of rural areas and the ageing of the rural population in the european union, in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of rural communities in the union. i would like to mention that in the light of these challenges, the cap post-2013 must send strong signals and respond to the concerns of both the rural community and society at large through a strong, sustainable, well-funded, credible and multifunctional food policy. i stress the urgent need to attract young generations to rural areas and to provide them with new and alternative economic opportunities to ensure a sustainable rural population and i believe that rural unemployment should be addressed by providing opportunities for diversification and new sources of income.
in writing. i want to thank the commission and the council for their statements on the new european strategy for jobs and growth. i consider that setting up the new energy targets will be a key factor in achieving a more resource efficient europe by 2020. i want to stress to the commission the fact that some member states will need special support in order to be able to develop and implement renewable technologies to achieve the 20% target of energy produced from renewable sources. i emphasise the positive impact of supporting the digital agenda initiatives in the flagship initiatives for new skills and jobs and i would like to see the commission coming forward with concrete legislative proposals to address the development of on-line environment by creating facilities, both financial and administrative, to promote on-line businesses and e-commerce. in terms of research and innovation in europe, i welcome the answer of commissioner quinn regarding the need to improve the research infrastructure in the new member states. research institutes and scientists are waiting for a fast and coordinated action from the commission and council in order to tackle this issue, as to allow them equal chances for participation in framework programmes.
in writing. the escalation of the economic crisis in greece, but also the stabilisation of the unemployment rate at the average level of 10% in the union, make the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy an immediate necessity. the pursuit of the objectives must be based on credible and strengthened action to overcome the crisis, with employment being one of the key points on this agenda. we all agree that to create a more competitive and sustainable economy, the union needs a highly skilled workforce capable of meeting current and future challenges. but statements are not enough to solve the existing problems, which is why i would like to remind you that urgent investment is required in the appropriate skills, but also in education systems, in order to align them with market demands. member states must be proactive, respect the commitments made in the european council and take the necessary measures to encourage the overcoming of the current crisis and economic growth.
in writing. i am a supporter of the europe 2020 strategy for smart (knowledge and innovation-based), green and social inclusive economic growth. i want this strategy to translate into the creation of well-paying jobs and the raising of people's living standards. in order to have a strong and balanced europe, we must pay close attention to the economic development of the regions in the new member states, in order to reduce the existing gaps. of course, building the right infrastructure must be a priority. i would like to emphasise the importance of implementing the flagship initiative 'youth on the move'. we need to increase funding for european programmes aimed at the continuous modernisation of education at all levels, as well as the mobility of teachers, students and researchers. the quality of education in european schools and universities must increase in line with the demands of the labour market. through appropriate policies and funding, we need to encourage language learning, multidisciplinarity, dual specialisations in universities, which are important for performance in scientific research and innovation, as well as for increasing the chances of young people in the labour market. it is also worth noting that strategy 2020 proposes a 'framework for youth employment' at european level.
in writing. the history of the lisbon agenda has shown that good principles and ideas are not enough, the most important step being the implementation of the proposed measures. unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis overlapped with the end of the lisbon agenda. however, i think it would be unfair to blame the crisis for the failure of this programme without trying to see where the european union went wrong in the implementation process. perhaps the lessons learned will serve us well in implementing the future eu 2020 strategy. i believe that we have important community instruments for putting the new strategy into practice, and i am referring in particular to cohesion policy. it should be stressed, however, that we cannot abandon the objectives of cohesion policy in order to reallocate funds to achieve the eu 2020 strategy. it would be a mistake with serious consequences for the member states which need these funds to overcome the development gaps which separate them from the other countries, it would mean the failure of the principle of cohesion at european level.
in writing. reducing the eu poverty level by at least 25% by 2020 is closely linked to raising the employment rate to 75%. a quantitative poverty reduction target is problematic. poverty includes economic, social, cultural and educational aspects, and qualitative rather than quantitative targets are needed to achieve the proposed objective. in romania, official data presented in march 2010 indicate an employment rate well below the minimum level set by the eu 2020 strategy (50% compared to 75%) and the downward trend continues, due to the current economic context. women, people over 45 and young people continue to have the greatest difficulties in finding employment. it's hard to believe that romania will be able to reach this target by 2020. we need to find answers to questions about the contribution of the full potential of work and knowledge of groups in society, women and men, young people, older people and migrants to the labour market, reducing youth unemployment or how to effectively increase women's participation in the labour market by diversifying their participation in all sectors of activity. without a clear answer to these questions, the twin goals of increasing employment and reducing poverty will end up in the same place as the lisbon agenda.
in writing. i am convinced that we must dream big, that the europe 2020 document must cover all areas of community cooperation and become a medium- and long-term european strategy. but the solidarity of european citizens is essential to its success. the new strategy is being drawn up with the contribution of the 27 member states of the enlarged european union, as defined by the treaty of lisbon, so that our citizens can feel that the common european effort is theirs. the hungarian electorate in romania expects the european union to find a solution to the rapid catch-up of the south and central-eastern european region as an expression of community solidarity. the strategy must address the long-term development of our countries, the internal market, agriculture and the development of smes, but also sensitive issues such as the social network, demographic challenges, equal opportunities in the labour market, interconnected european systems and networks in all areas of life. the europe 2020 strategy should be a strategy of catch-up and convergence.
i am pleased that by joining the most fundamental european human rights instrument, the union is taking another step towards a truly united europe and is reaffirming its credibility in addressing human rights problems in third countries. but let us not forget that in many respects the council of europe is ahead of the union in the protection of human rights. i therefore ask the commission to examine the possibility of acceding to other council of europe conventions and to draw up an inventory of international treaties concluded within the framework of the eec, which, by acceding to them, can further improve the quality of the human rights legislation in eu law. i am convinced that if europe is to become a true area of freedom, security and justice, it must also cooperate with the council of europe and adopt its existing human rights acquis. among these achievements, the european charter for regional or minority languages and the framework convention for the protection of national minorities should be highlighted, which set out the minimum requirements for responding to the problems of indigenous national minorities in the spirit of european integration, respect for diversity and the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. the member states of the european union are all members of the council of europe, and most of them have signed and ratified the said documents. it would be natural for such an extension of eu law to take place by means of such conventions, which have already been drawn up and widely accepted.
the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon ensures the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the court of justice in strasbourg will thus ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms are protected against the actions of the union. this is all the more important as member states have transferred important competences to the european union. i would stress that accession will not affect the principle of the autonomy of union law, as the court of justice in luxembourg will remain the sole supreme court for all matters relating to eu law. romania signed the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in 1993. it is important to note that article 20 of the romanian constitution establishes that international regulations on fundamental human rights, to which romania is a party, take precedence over domestic laws.
in writing. as rapporteur for afet on the union's accession to the european convention on human rights, i have asked myself, as have other colleagues, what is new about such a decision. the answer, in my view, is that accession creates additional external control of compliance with rights at union level. in this way, the european public order, based, as we know, on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, is being consolidated. finally, accession means more credibility for the union in its external relations. on the other hand, we must be aware that there are a number of questions that need to be answered: what is the scope of accession? just the convention or the additional protocols? what will be the modalities of the union's representation in the convention bodies? what role will parliament play in the appointment of the union judge to the ecthr? i'm sure they'll all be answered soon.
road transport is responsible for 28% of pollutant emissions from non-ets sectors. under existing legislation, car manufacturers must produce only vehicles with emissions below 120g co2/km by 2020 at the latest. in addition, car manufacturers can offer customers discounts if they replace their older, less environmentally friendly vehicle with one that emits less pollutants. as a result, in the european union, there was a 7% increase in demand for hybrid or electric vehicles in 2009. these vehicles are specifically dedicated to urban mobility. the widespread use of electric or hybrid vehicles depends on the coverage of the infrastructure for their supply. in this regard, the standardisation of electric vehicles becomes crucial.
in writing. in the context of climate change, green vehicles are an effective way to reduce carbon emissions. their development must, however, be included in a future sustainable mobility policy. romania wishes to introduce electric cars gradually on the domestic market. in this regard, prime minister emil boc recently decided to set up an interministerial group to develop a national strategy for the manufacture of electric cars. countries such as denmark and israel are installing and testing charging stations that will be officially launched at the end of 2011. the governments of france, spain, and ireland also provide subsidies for the purchase of such vehicles. at this point, the cost of an electric car is high, and it's determined primarily by the cost of the battery. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. in this context, the commission should provide financial support to the member states. the benefits of 'green cars' are significant: they help to combat climate change, reduce europe's dependence on oil and contribute to the europe 2020 goals. that's why i think we need to encourage the use of electric cars.
in writing. the use of electric vehicles offers a number of major advantages for sustainable mobility. we can talk about reducing carbon dioxide emissions and improving air quality, reducing our dependence on imported fossil fuels and increasing the efficiency of electric cars compared to other transport technologies. globally, eu competitors are investing in research and development of new low-carbon technologies and launching programmes to shift to green road transport. to enable european industry to remain globally competitive and to ensure that it plays a leading role in green technologies, the european union needs to create an appropriate framework for promoting innovative technologies, encouraging research and developing the infrastructure needed to support the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy. i support the european commission's efforts in this regard and welcome the publication of the plan to promote the establishment of a european network of fast charging stations for electric cars and the establishment of common technical and safety standards for them by 2011.
in writing. the transition to a sustainable and energy-efficient transport system has become a priority for the eu in the context of climate change and volatile fuel prices. the development of electric vehicles at european level as a replacement for conventional vehicles is a viable solution with high market potential. to this end, member states need to coordinate so that a decision can be taken for european standardisation, for example, at the level of energy charging and storage systems, including smart grids and on-board integrated measurement and interoperability systems. the eu must also give more support to research and innovation, particularly in improving battery and motor technology, but also in incentives for the production of electric vehicles. i call on the european commission to take concrete action to anticipate changes in the automotive sector and supply chain and to support the coordination of national policies in this area. it is time for the eu to increase the competitiveness of the mobility industry by reducing development costs for manufacturers and by gradually reducing co2 emissions from road transport.
in writing. – i welcome the commission’s recent strategy on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, and especially the new focus on electric cars instead of biofuels as part of the shift to greener transport. however, just as biofuels are controversial and not without problems, there are significant challenges with electric cars which must be overcome before they become a realistic option for european citizens, and before they deliver real environmental benefits. the additional demand for electric power for transport must be met by low-carbon sources if these cars are to realise their full environmental potential. i am concerned that the eu’s development of these sources will not be sufficient to match the demand which will arise from increased use of electric transport. this needs to be considered as part of the eu’s energy strategy as we move towards a low-carbon economy and reduced dependence on oil supplies from third countries. a network of standardised charging points must also be put in place, and i encourage the commission and member states to work towards this standardised infrastructure to make electric cars viable for consumers and car manufacturers alike. if these key challenges can be overcome, we can look forward to low-carbon, low-pollutant transport and all the associated benefits to the environment and human health.
i have proposed a resolution to ban the use of cyanide in mining, because we have an obligation to take all safety precautions to protect people and the environment from environmental catastrophes. if we are making historic commitments to reduce emissions, if we are setting the tone for the world on environmental protection, why not make a basic clean-up gesture and eliminate this harmful practice from the european union? the baia mare accident in romania 10 years ago is considered a chernobyl of sorts, hitting three countries and destroying the ecosystems of affected rivers for hundreds of kilometers. now, in romania, at rosia montana, a new cyanide mine is being built. that's why today, more than ever, i thank you for voting no to cyanide in mining. the european union must help the regions affected to develop sustainably and to reach their full potential.
the very difficult situation in greece, and the very worrying information about other eu countries having serious problems, shows us that the economic crisis is not over and that, despite some progress in the older eu countries, there is still a risk of major imbalances. unfortunately, when some countries face declining budget revenues, the immediate temptation is to raise taxes and fees. this is about to happen in romania, where the government is currently discussing the increase of the single rate and vat. it is wrong to think that a sudden increase in taxes and fees will bring more money to the budget, and in the medium and long term the effects of such measures on the economy are very harmful. unfortunately, the european union is having difficulty developing a common strategy against the economic crisis. but i think that there needs to be better communication and cooperation between countries that have overcome the crisis with proactive, incentive measures, not by raising taxes, and countries with big problems, which are on the verge of, as a desperate measure, raising taxes and taxes, and risking to sink deeper into the crisis.
i believe that in order to improve the functioning of the food supply chain in europe and to achieve the greatest possible transparency, it is necessary to ensure a uniform legal framework at community level, providing for: the definition of terms used in commercial relations between food suppliers and traders, more effective ways of protecting suppliers against anti-competitive agreements and practices, the manner and term of payment. i also consider it useful to strengthen compliance with the competition rules and their uniform interpretation in all member states. in view of the current state of trade relations between suppliers and traders, i believe that it is necessary to assess the provisions of the competition rules which will determine a balance between the common agricultural policy and the european union's competition policies. market monitoring could include good transparency in the formation of prices and in particular profit margins in the food chain.
mr president, history has shown us that crises can generate progress. under pressure, new ideas can emerge, creating innovative mechanisms in order to induce development and avoid the errors that led to the crisis. i would like to highlight two such ideas that could result in meaningful instruments. if we want the eu to remain a relevant global player, a european monetary fund and a european rating agency should be created. despite the major institutional effort needed, it is still an exercise worth undertaking if we consider our long-term interest. we can all bet on the fact that the future will bring new crises. the european social market economy and the common currency are cornerstones of the world economy and the global financial system. the establishment of a ‘european imf’ could enforce the stability and growth pact, and the european rating agency would make its assessments based upon a true understanding of european economies. both ideas should be debated seriously, and, in my opinion, the positive decision would be the wise one.
we have recently seen a worrying rise of the far right and a radicalization of xenophobic and racist attitudes. the regional elections in italy and france and the parliamentary elections in hungary have confirmed the growing success of extremist movements promoting a dangerous nationalist, anti-european and conflictual discourse, whether towards national minorities or towards neighbouring states. this is not what we wanted for a united europe and this is not what i believe is the solution to the problems of its citizens. i would like to express my concern about the spread of messages hostile to eastern europeans, romanians in particular, in foreign media, hitherto extremist rhetoric. a french tv channel is generally insulting romanians, and a spanish popular party candidate in the municipal elections in the barcelona region promoted his election campaign under the slogan "we don't want romanians". i would like to call on all the political forces in the european parliament to show solidarity in countering this dangerous phenomenon in the european union.
deputising for the author. − mr president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs has put forward this question because it has followed with interest the review procedure of the motor vehicle block exemption regulation, and some careful thinking has to be done. as you know, block exemption regulations are very important instruments to the business community. this regulation was adopted in 2002. at that time the commission considered that there was an oligopolistic situation in the european car market, the six largest manufacturers in europe having together a market share of 75%. against this background, the commission considers that the motor vehicle sector should not be brought within the general vertical block exemption regulation, and therefore adopted a specific regulation. this regulation will expire on 31 may 2010. the commission now considers that the markets for new vehicles sales are highly competitive and that concentration levels have been declining. as a consequence of this assessment, the commission proposes that a specific block exemption is no longer needed for the sale of new cars and commercial vehicles. it proposes to adopt a special block exemption regulation only for repair and maintenance services, as well as for the spare-parts distribution. parliament is concerned about this reform. as you know, the eu is currently facing an exceptional financial and economic crisis, and unemployment rates are high. the european automotive industry is a key sector of the european economy, contributing to employment, innovation and the competitiveness of the whole economy. we believe that it is necessary to establish general conditions to make this sector sustainable and enable it to remain economically efficient and green. there is also a need to ensure that the small and medium-sized players in this market enjoy favourable conditions. we cannot forget the importance of smes as job providers and as suppliers of proximity. however, several motor vehicle dealers and repair businesses have expressed serious concerns about the new regulatory framework, arguing that it will lead to a further deterioration of the power balance between manufacturers and the rest of the automotive value chain. therefore, commissioner almunia, the committee on economic and monetary affairs would like to ask you, firstly: which results of market analysis led the commission to conclude that the primary market is currently competitive and the after-sales market is still problematic? secondly, how does the commission evaluate the balance of power between car manufacturers and car dealers under the current motor vehicle block exemption regulation, and under the proposed legislative framework? are there players with a simple or collective dominant position? thirdly, how does the commission intend to monitor the evolution of market power in the primary and after-sales markets? which measure does the commission envisage, should it appear that the competitive conditions, in particular in the primary market, have significantly worsened? fourthly, what is the expected impact of the new legislative framework on consumers, in particular as regards prices and conditions offered? fifthly, which comments received from stakeholders, namely during the consultation, does the commission intend to incorporate in the final legislative framework? finally, does the commission agree to consider proposing harmonising legislation in the area of distribution, for instance by amending the commercial agency directive, in order to ensure that all dealers benefit from the same high level of contractual protection in every eu member state?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the current motor vehicle block exemption regulation expires on 1 june this year, and we need to adopt a new regulation before that date. the college of commissioners has placed this issue on the agenda of our meeting of 26 may. the proposal that is now being discussed within our services and, in a few days, with our cabinets – preparing the collegial discussions – is the result of an in-depth analysis of the sector. the public consultation process started in june 2006. three and a half years later, in december last year, the commission published the draft block exemption and guidelines. throughout this process, stakeholders, the european parliament and the member states have all been closely involved, and a lot of arguments have been taken into consideration. a number of debates, workshops and initiatives have also taken place, including here in parliament. the latest took place on 12 april this year at the econ committee. what are the main conclusions of this long consultation process? first, we learned something positive: that consumers in europe enjoy vigorous competition in the car sales market. in our annual car price reports we have been reporting on 80 car models from around 25 manufacturers – and prices are not the only factor which tells us that competition is healthy. there is also more choice than there was 10 years ago, with more brands available for each type of car. in these circumstances it would be difficult to suggest that any carmaker would be able to exercise a dominant position, be it individually or collectively. the current regimes contain sector-specific rules that made sense at that time (in 2002) when a wave of consolidation was expected in the vehicle sector. this consolidation period did not materialise, and instead what we have today is a very competitive market. by allowing more flexibility for the distribution of vehicles, the proposed changes will restore manufacturers’ incentives to reduce the cost of selling cars. allow me to recall that distribution costs make up, on average, 30% of the price of a new car. by reducing those costs, manufacturers will improve their competitive position, with resulting benefits for consumers. i am perfectly aware that there are some concerns about proposed changes relating to multi-brand sales and contractual protection for dealers, and both of you have mentioned these concerns. let me stress that multi-branding exists – and will continue to exist – where market reality calls for it. this is the case in countries with very large dealers that have the capacity to distribute several brands – for example in the uk – and it is also the case in sparsely-populated areas, where it makes economic sense for the dealers to sell different brands from the same site. this was the reality before the current block exemption was adopted in 2002, and it remains the reality eight years later, but then, as now, single branding was the most common distribution model. what we have observed is that carmakers have increasingly resorted to other forms of distribution, including manufacturer-owned outlets. the evolution of distribution in germany, for instance, is symptomatic of this trend, with 67% of cars sold through dealer networks, as opposed to 90% before the regulation came into effect in 2002. nonetheless, we have responded to concerns expressed during the consultations, including the consultations that took place here in the parliament, and a number of safeguards have been introduced with regard to multi-brand dealerships. let me also underline that we propose a transitional phase, during which the current regulation will be in force until the end of 2013 for the car distribution market, to allow sufficient time for dealers who invested in multi-branding to amortise their investments. concerning the reason why we are proposing to do away with clauses granting contractual protection to dealers, it is simply because competition law is not the appropriate instrument to address eventual imbalances between contractual parties. these issues, as was discussed when we were preparing regulation (ec) no 1/2003, belong to the sphere of commercial law. in a competitive market such as the car market, competition law should not interfere with the balance of powers between the different contracting parties. to do so would be intrusive. we have to be proportionate when we interfere in how markets work. in the process of consultation we also learned some other, maybe less positive things: unlike car prices, the cost of the average repair job has actually risen over the past years. repair and maintenance is very important for consumers: not only for reasons of safety and reliability, but also because repair bills account for 40% of the total cost of owning a car. unfortunately, the ability of independent garages to compete with authorised repairers is still impaired by a number of restrictions, including limited access to spare parts and to technical information. therefore, our reform intends to allow independent garages better access to spare parts and technical information and to prevent them from being shut out of the market by other, newer practices. this will result in better-quality repair services and lower prices. to conclude, i strongly believe the new framework will be more favourable to consumers. our main priority is to increase competition in the after-sales market – in repairs and servicing – where it is most lacking. although vehicle manufacturers may be in a strong commercial position vis-à-vis dealers, they compete fiercely with each other, and today there is no need to deviate, to preserve competition on these kind of agreements, from the block exemption regulation for vertical agreements, which was adopted recently by the commission and will also come into force at the end of this month. indeed, the commission, and in particular my services, dg competition, will monitor the sector very carefully, and there should be no doubt about the commission’s determination to enforce competition rules and take necessary steps if any serious breaches or shortcomings are identified.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the purchase and maintenance of a car is considered to be one of the most important costs for households. the very aim of competition policy is to ensure consumers’ freedom of choice and access to products at lower and more affordable prices. as a member of this house, and consequently a representative of eu citizens who are also consumers in the car market, i am deeply concerned about the review of the motor vehicle block exemption regulation and its impact on consumers. the commission – and i listened very carefully and attentively to the arguments from the commissioner – argues that this sector’s specific regulation is no longer needed for the sales market, since there is evidence that the competition objectives have been achieved and a proper level of competition has been reached. in principle i would not be against the removal of the specific sector block exemption if there were no risk for consumers. we should use the three-year transitional period to assess the impact of the decision to exclude sales from the motor vehicle block exemption regulation. there is an undeniable phenomenon of predominance of large car manufacturers. i would like to hear the views of the commission on the ways to ensure that they will not take advantage of their market share, and limit the choice that consumers should have on their market. i would also like to express my support for the proposal to maintain the specific block exemption for repair and maintenance, which proved to be less competitive than the sales market. my concern regarding the after-market is particularly related to those cases where consumers are unnecessarily tied to a specific operator for repairing their car. this can either be because independent repairers do not have proper access to the necessary technical information or because car manufacturers interpret warranty terms in an abusive way. this is an unacceptable limitation of the choice consumers ought to have, and i expect the commission to bring solutions to change this type of situation. i therefore invite the commission to bring some clarification concerning the measures it intends to take in order to avoid this situation, which is detrimental to consumers.
the european union's motor vehicle sector, including both vehicle manufacturers and vehicle parts manufacturers, needs to remain economically efficient and innovative. given that road safety is influenced by the competitive conditions on the spare parts market in the vehicle sector, we call on the commission to promote effective competition on the spare parts market so that prices for all types of spare parts are accessible. buyers should be able to purchase a vehicle at competitive prices and to choose the supplier for repair and maintenance services, regardless of the supplier's chosen distribution system. the future legislative framework should guarantee that smes in the automotive supply chain can benefit from favourable conditions and that their dependence on large manufacturers will not increase. the new provisions of the regulations, on the exemption of categories in the vehicle sector, should also be extended to include the definition of end-user to take account of leasing.
in writing. buying a car is often the most important expenditure of households in the european union, after buying a home. the commission is proposing to repeal the existing exemption in the motor vehicle sector and introduce general competition rules through the motor vehicle block exemption regulation. i consider that the removal of certain clauses of the current regulation in this field, in particular those relating to the freedom of up to 70% for intermediaries selling cars to sell several brands of cars, risks increasing the dependence of intermediaries on manufacturers, restricting competition and limiting consumer choice on the european car market. we are in a situation where a considerable number of automotive intermediaries, and in particular the more vulnerable smes in the sector, could disappear from the european market, thus weakening the entire european automotive industry. i therefore ask the commission to assess the consequences of its proposals, taking into account the structure of the european automotive sector, in which small and medium-sized enterprises play a fundamental role, and to present, if necessary, a new regulation at the end of the three-year extension of the current regulation.
first of all, i would like to thank mr peterle for his work on this report. according to medical data, cancer is the second leading cause of death in europe, equally for men and women. the involvement of the european commission in the partnership to fight cancer means a new chance at life for people affected by this terrible disease and their families. it is essential that we continue to unite all our efforts for permanent cooperation, both in terms of expertise and in dealing with the new challenges that arise in such cases. the european partnership to fight cancer must therefore ensure that the resources, skills and means available to all member states are used as efficiently as possible and that the results of the progress made in the fight against cancer in the various countries of the european union are made available to the whole of europe.
i too would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. according to the commission communication to parliament, the volume of cancer screening carried out in the european union is less than half the minimum number of investigations that could be carried out each year. i think we need to make sure that screening is accessible to as many citizens as possible, and that's becoming possible. research in this area has made progress in reducing the cost of testing and increasing the accuracy of cancer detection by biomarkers. a recent invention that won an award at the geneva international exhibition of inventions allows some forms of cancer to be detected in less than six minutes and for less than one euro. it's a sensor invented by raluca-ioana van stade, a researcher in romania, that can detect cancers before they become symptomatic, with the highest accuracy of any method on the market, allowing for a higher success rate of treatment. i hope that within the commission, through the joint research centre, there is an interest in this invention and that it may qualify for inclusion in the recommendations for introduction into diagnostic programmes.
the partnership launched by the european commission last year is a much-needed tool, with cancer the second most common cause of death after cardiovascular disease. unfortunately, there are large disparities between member states in the quality of healthcare and access to treatment. according to recent statistics, men in the countries of southeastern europe are twice as likely to die of cancer as men in the nordic countries, for example. i believe that action at european level is needed in the interests of european citizens to avoid large differences in diagnosis and treatment across eu member states. the european commission must allocate funds for research in this area. achievements such as the invention of the romanian raluca-ioana van stade, namely a sensor that determines the existence of cancer in the human body, at the molecular level, directly from the blood, through a simple procedure that takes less than six minutes, must be supported and exploited to the maximum.
in writing. – i cannot but welcome the commission proposal for a partnership on the fight against cancer, which is a serious public health concern in the eu. i fully support the approach of the rapporteur who places a special emphasis on the preventive action. in this perspective i strongly believe that comprehensive national cancer plans are more than welcome. i would also favour the cooperation on this topic in the field of research. we need to clearly identify the main causes generating this disease so that we can also identify the main elements on which we need to focus within our prevention efforts. this is absolutely necessary for an effective preventive action. i also believe that it would be reasonable to build our future action upon existing initiatives such as the european code against cancer or the council recommendations on screening for breast, cervical and colon cancer, which are already a good basis for action. of course, prevention can’t be done without a proper level of financial resources. i therefore call on the member states to allocate the necessary funds to the prevention plans so that the 15% target for the reduction of the number of new cases remains realistic.
i would like to welcome the conclusions of the european council of 25-26 march 2010, which for the first time clearly set a 20% increase in energy efficiency as a european union objective. energy efficiency can be improved by the use of information and communication technologies in the field of buildings, by efficient metering systems and in the field of transport, by the implementation of intelligent transport systems at european level. information and communication technology-based systems can reduce energy consumption in buildings by up to 17% and emissions from the transport sector by up to 27%. i believe that in order to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020, electricity grids should become intelligent, with flexible, controlled power flows and based on the use of information and communication technology. the union must give priority to boosting the european economy by investing in the development of online services, new technologies and, in particular, the development of broadband communications in all member states.
i believe that european funds must reach citizens fairly and transparently. a viable way to eliminate corruption in the public procurement system is to introduce a transparent system, the electronic auction system. according to the commission report, the decrease in the financial impact of irregularities in 2008 shows that the implementation by member states of legislative and institutional measures to deter fraud has been successful. increased financial control and effective legislation to combat tax fraud, especially in the area of vat, are still needed. the protection of the financial interests of the european union is also a priority for the government of romania. the anti-fraud department was created within the office and is the only contact point with olaf in romania for european funds.
mr president, as epp shadow rapporteur i would like to start by expressing my gratitude to the rapporteur and to the other colleagues from the political groups for their excellent cooperation. we paid particular attention to increasing transparency and better rules for public procurement, as this is the area most vulnerable to fraud and corruption which distort the market and increase the prices paid by consumers. moreover, beneficiaries of eu funds from all member states should be published on one website and based on the same criteria. i also called for the mutual recognition of disqualifications, such as the exclusion of fraudulent offenders from acting as chief executives. olaf’s activities should be supported; we ask for statistics and reasons in cases where national authorities did not file indictments following reports by olaf, which happens in 73% of the cases initiated by olaf. the report also proposes to ban companies which operate through offshore havens from concluding business agreements with companies residing in the union if their offshore location has unilaterally delayed the adoption of cooperation agreements with the union. let me conclude by saying that the union must treat fraud and corruption as interlinked and as a matter of priority.
president of the european investment bank. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank you for the honour of inviting me to speak in plenary. it is a continuation of a tradition that was inaugurated a few years ago. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr deutsch, for the high quality of his report. i particularly appreciated that mr deutsch, as well as other members of the committee, mr berman, mr kalfin, took the trouble to come to the premises of the european investment bank to ask very specific questions. i welcome this excellent cooperation with parliament. in reality, the european investment bank is the only international financial institution that is voluntarily accountable to a parliamentary institution. i think this is an excellent thing: the strengthening of the dialogue with the european parliament is, in my view, absolutely essential if we are to be able to fulfil our role, our specific mission, which is to be a bank - but not just an ordinary bank - at the service of the policies of the european union. as mr deutsch has already said, this is what we have tried to do in response to the crisis. as early as september 2008, after the lehman brothers bankruptcy, the ecofin council asked us to increase the volume of our lending to the real economy. we have responded to this council injunction and i think we can say that we have indeed fulfilled our commitments, since in 2009 our lending volume increased from 58 billion to 79 billion, an increase of 37% in the volume of our lending in the european union. this increase was mainly in the three areas which the council and parliament had indicated to us as being of priority. the first area was to make a special effort for the countries and regions that were hardest hit by the crisis. this increase is largely due to the so-called convergence regions and in particular to some countries that were experiencing particular difficulties in 2009. we have never lent so much to countries like hungary, lithuania, romania. this is also why we are making a special effort this year for greece: i was in athens last week and we agreed with the greek government that we would substantially increase the volume of our loans to greece as a sign of support and contribution to the overall effort to revive the greek economy. the second priority was to support small and mediumsized enterprises: we increased our lending to banks so that they could continue lending to small and mediumsized enterprises, with a new product that allows us to have better control over the actual use of the funds we lend. that's over 12 billion we lent to banks last year for small and medium-sized businesses. the third area we were asked to focus on is the fight against climate change. last year we spent almost 17 billion on projects that directly contribute to reducing the volume of greenhouse gas emissions. i think i can say that in 2009 we did what was expected of us, namely to make our contribution to the european economic recovery plan. we must of course continue along this path and i would like to mention very briefly the three major challenges that lie ahead of us in the months and years to come. the first is, of course, - and your rapporteur rightly emphasized this - to continue to be among the priorities of the european union. this means that we, as the eib, must contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. you know that the commission has launched this new strategy, which is currently being discussed with the council and parliament. the eib is ready to contribute, in particular through innovative financial instruments, which would increase the leverage effect of certain funds in the european budget. we therefore want to set up joint instruments between the commission and the bank. the second major challenge we face is the renewal of the eib's external mandates. we shall have the opportunity to discuss this with parliament. the commission has just put forward a proposal which is entirely in line with the report of a committee of experts chaired by mr camdessus. the essential element of this proposal is to make the system even more efficient. you know that we have a guarantee from the european union for operations which are part of its external mandates. the commission proposes to simplify and harmonize our external mandates. the commission also proposes that the 2 billion which were set aside be allocated to projects contributing to the fight against climate change. this brings me to the third challenge i wanted to highlight: the need for the european investment bank, together with other institutions, to make its contribution, in particular, to meeting the commitment made by the european union in copenhagen. you know that the european union has made important commitments to support what is called fast track financing. in this context, we believe that the eib, which has developed undeniable expertise in these matters, can make an important contribution. that is why we have proposed that, together with other national financial institutions, a network be set up, a european platform, which could coordinate and thus make project financing in developing countries more efficient. the french development agency and the german kfw have already expressed interest in this initiative and i hope that in the coming weeks we will be able, together with the commission, to contribute to the development of this instrument. these are the three important challenges for the coming months and years to which i would like to draw your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank mr deutsch for an excellent report, and also to welcome president philip maystadt to your plenary and congratulate him for the huge efforts the eib has made to counter the economic crisis and to support the eu’s recovery plan. in the extraordinary circumstances we made an extraordinary call to the bank, and it responded immediately by accelerating its lending to record highs. due to its excellent financial standing, it was able to do so even at a time when it was difficult to raise finance from the markets. the increased volumes targeted especially those areas which we feel – and i trust parliament shares this view – are a priority, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, energy and climate change, as well as investments in the convergence regions of the union which have been particularly hard hit by the economic slowdown. furthermore, the eib, in a joint initiative with the ebrd and the world bank, was able to increase its support to the financial sector in the countries of central and eastern europe, which are also experiencing an especially difficult situation. the eib will have a very important role to play in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy in supporting investments in infrastructure, green technologies, innovation and smes. we are also laying the groundwork to enhance the combined use of eu grants with the eib financial instruments both inside and outside the union, including in the convergence regions, where the eib can play an important role in improving the absorption of structural funds. in the external field, i am very satisfied with the mid-term review of the eib external mandate, supported by the camdessus report, which concluded that the eu guarantee to the eib is an efficient and forceful instrument with high financial and political leverage. the camdessus report also contained a number of good suggestions on increased alignment of eib external activity with eu policies, and on how to enhance the cooperation of the eib and the ebrd, building on parliament’s resolution on the eib and ebrd annual reports for 2007. parliament had called for a better mutual understanding between the two banks. i have been very pleased to see that the eib and the ebrd have reached an agreement on their cooperation in common countries of cooperation. this will form the basis for a more global tripartite agreement with the commission replacing the existing regionally based agreements. the main outcome of the mid-term review is the legislative proposal which the commission has just submitted to parliament and the council for amendment of the eib mandate for the remainder of the current financial perspective. i trust that you will find it a solid and balanced proposal which takes into account parliament’s recommendations and concerns. it aims at reinforcing the focus of the external mandate on the key policy areas where the eib has a well-proven track record, especially climate change, social and economic infrastructure and local private sector development, but also at placing more emphasis on development aspects of eib financing. so, in conclusion, we are looking forward to constructive and productive discussions with you and with the council over the next months on this proposal. we hope that once again we could see an agreement at first reading, so that legal stability can continue to be ensured for an external mandate that allows us to effectively and efficiently pursue the eu’s external policy objectives.
on behalf of the s&d group. i think we can all agree that the european investment bank is one of the european projects that can be called a european success story, and i would like to congratulate it here for having managed to maintain its aaa rating, which is a very good one, during the crisis. on the other hand, the current economic situation in europe requires a major revision of the european investment bank's mission. i will only mention three important points here: firstly, the loans it provides must support the europe 2020 agenda; secondly, the loans it provides must support large investment projects so that european economies can start to function again and, thirdly, the european investment bank can and must support the formation of a much more stable and much stronger european economic framework.
in the context of the crisis, the european investment bank was able to quickly shift its lending priorities to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which were most exposed to the risks generated by the crisis and the increased costs of credit. it is important to see to what extent the bank can co-finance projects financed by the structural funds in the eastern member states, because, as you know, a number of smes and local authorities are facing major difficulties in accessing european funds for which there is no co-financing on the financial-banking market. i believe that in the coming period the bank's activities must focus on countries that are severely affected by the crisis and are failing to revive their economies, in order to support cohesion and prevent further economic and social decline. the european investment bank is a key player in the eu's financial tool for boosting growth and therefore i support the recommendation that the eu, as a legal entity, could become a shareholder in the bank alongside the member states, which would lead to enhanced cooperation.
i would first like to congratulate the european investment bank on its efforts to achieve the community's objectives. its role during the economic and financial crisis has been and remains vital. the convergence objective receives substantial support from the structural and cohesion funds and is a central objective of the bank; eur 21 billion, about 41% of total eib lending in the european union, was for projects targeting this objective. i believe that the development of the poorer regions can only be achieved when the infrastructure ensuring accessibility, social and educational infrastructure is built to common standards for all citizens of the european union. i therefore encourage the european investment bank to continue its efforts to promote economic and social cohesion in the european union and to combat the financial crisis by increasing its lending. (the president cut off the speaker)
the european investment bank has a major role to play in increasing convergence across the european union, which is essential in the context of the economic downturn that has severely affected investment, particularly in public infrastructure. i believe that the eib's response to the challenges of the crisis was extremely prompt, with the example of its financing for romania, which amounted to almost eur 1.5 billion for 2009. these loans illustrate the complexity of the bank's involvement in accelerating the recovery of the development gap in the post-accession period. as my colleagues have said, a significant proportion of the loans is for supporting smes. i believe that improving their access to capital can play a key role in stimulating the european economy and fighting unemployment. in this context, annual assessments of the affordability and efficiency of these loans would be useful, both for greater transparency on their final destination and to improve the bureaucratic flow.
i would like to join those who have offered their condolences to the people of nigeria, whose president passed away tonight. unfortunately, this adds to the already existing tensions a new risk factor: the disappearance of a center of authority in a country badly affected by violence. as you know, earlier this year, over 300 muslims were massacred, only for, less than two months later, in just two hours, a similar number of christians to be killed. now, the mere presence of the army in the streets is delaying the plans of some christians and muslims for revenge. in my opinion, the main problem at the moment is to ensure order, to prevent further atrocities, and to this end, i believe an international presence is necessary. secondly, we have the problem of impunity, which is a general one in the conflict zones of africa. as more mass murderers are arrested and brought to justice, we will see a decrease in violence. the international community, which has shown itself sensitive to the problems of the balkans and the east but has refrained from turning its eyes to the plight of africa, must once again be involved in practical ways.
i want to join those who have offered their condolences to the people of nigeria on the death of president umaru yar'adua. i'd like to address two things in my remarks. first of all, i want to start with what one of the nigerians said when asked what the cause of evil in this country was. and he said it very clearly, "we see that people guilty of atrocities, of crimes are charged and then", he said, "they disappear in the capital, we never see them again", in other words, public responsibility for the crimes committed is never obvious. secondly, i would like to stress that we must take into account the religious dimension of the conflict. several speakers so far have seemed to say that there is a religious dimension, but that, at bottom, it's all social and economic. incidentally, the incumbent president, jonathan goodluck, took note of this dimension and called the religious leaders to dialogue. we must support him in this direction.
mr president, i want to thank those colleagues who supported and signed this declaration, and i would like to take this opportunity to call upon the commission and council to establish a solid and strong anti-corruption monitoring mechanism in the european union. i appeal to the member states to show political will and strengthen their fight against corruption before it is too late.
thank you to the nearly 500 of our colleagues who yesterday cast a crushing vote against the use of cyanide in mining. when we say cyanide, we mean death. this vote definitely does us romanians a great favor. transylvania is home to one of the world's largest natural deposits. scientists estimate that it contains 300 tons of highly purified uranium, 800 tons of gold, 2,000 tons of silver, and vast quantities of other rare metals and elements. a greedy, indigenous, transnational mafia is prowling around these riches, making an increasingly aggressive propaganda, in which the most ridiculous lies abound. the use of cyanide would have caused a colossal disaster, poisoning the environment, blowing up four mountains, destroying nine cemeteries and demolishing eight christian churches, and also wiping out 1,700 kilometers of roman galleys, wiping out the ruins of the roman fortress of alburnus maior, an archaeological treasure described by unesco as a unique cultural heritage in the world. europe has had enough of chernobyl, it doesn't need another one.
i voted against the resolution yesterday because that's what the local communities have asked me to do, because they see this ban as a threat to the development of the area. i believe, moreover, that the amendment which i proposed together with several colleagues, more than 40 colleagues, and which called for a study to clarify the question of impact, would have been a gesture of honour and a reasonable gesture. otherwise, the passions that are engaged here have only destroyed the chance for some communities to develop.
in writing. − i support the promotion of electric vehicles as a medium- and long-term priority. it is necessary to identify ways to encourage member states to implement common strategies for the standardisation of electric vehicles. the success of this strategy will undoubtedly mean lower costs for users and thus make electric vehicles more attractive. the lack of coordination at european level meant high costs not only for users. industrial producers will have to standardize their different industrial parameters, which will directly affect costs. that is why i argue that if we want things to go in the right direction, we need to focus on standardisation procedures. it is necessary to identify ways to encourage european consumers to use electric cars. i think the local authorities have an important role to play. they will be able to stimulate european buyers by the power of their example, but also by facilities in infrastructure and by advantages in respect of various taxes such as parking or pollution. i think a very good example and a very good signal would be the use of electric cars in the european institutions. as an experiment, a mini electric car fleet should be created as a matter of urgency, as an alternative to current transport.
in writing. − i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution because it highlights the problems in the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the exemption of motor vehicles by category. the european commission's recommendation to amend certain clauses of the current regulation in this area, in particular by introducing an obligation for car dealers to market up to 80% of a single brand, could increase their dependence on manufacturers and risk restricting competition in the sector and negatively affecting consumer choices.
in writing. − the forecasts of an exponential increase in cancer diagnoses are meant to raise a great alarm in the international community. one in three europeans will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime, and this relentless disease is the second leading cause of death on the continent. the european parliament, in its resolution, draws attention to the fact that there are still unacceptable inequalities in cancer detection and treatment at european level. one third of all cancers diagnosed are fatal to the patient because they were diagnosed too late. this is a reality that europe needs to change through information programmes, public education and facilitating access to quality healthcare. last but not least, the eu is doing very little now to research this disease, about which we still know very little. research and prevention are the main ways to fight this disease. in the medium term, this will pay off. the incidence of cancer needs to decline if europe is to achieve the ambitious target set by the european commission of reducing the number of new cancer cases by 15% by 2020, also taking into account the upward trend caused by population growth and ageing.
in writing. − switching to smart metering can reduce energy consumption by up to 10% at european level because it would allow for the bidirectional transfer of information between network operators, energy suppliers and consumers. analyses show that the intelligent use of ict can reduce energy consumption in buildings, which currently accounts for 40% of total energy consumption in europe, by up to 17%. all of these figures translate into reducing carbon emissions from transportation alone by up to 27 percent. all of these forecasts only encourage us to make the most of modern technology. even if they cannot be implemented at unitary level in the european union in the short term, it is important that all member states are aware of the alternative to using modern technologies to reduce carbon emissions, which is set with very ambitious targets in the europe 2020 agenda. the construction and transport industries are among the major energy consumers that can hasten the implementation of modern technological systems. similarly, the exploitation of natural resources can be made less environmentally aggressive and carbon-intensive with the help of new technologies.
in writing. − at the level of each member state, information and telecommunications technologies (ict) are ways of increasing energy efficiency, and provide new applications and technologies for improving the exploitation of natural resources, transforming production and industrial processes into an eco-efficient economy. ict-based systems can reduce energy consumption in buildings - currently accounting for 40% of total energy consumed in europe - by up to 17% and carbon emissions from transport by up to 27%. the ict sectors employ 6.6 million people in the 27 eu member states, boost the innovation capacity of all sectors and contribute more than 40% of overall productivity growth. the european commission and the committee of the regions must urgently develop a 'practical guide for local and regional authorities' on improving energy performance through the innovative use of ict. it will set out how authorities can exploit ict in their climate change plans and describe how cohesion funds can support business partnerships to create innovative ict applications, in order to encourage and support cities, municipalities in using ict to reduce emissions.
in writing. − i was rapporteur for the environment committee’s opinion for this report, and i am acutely aware of the potential for the ict sector to deliver considerable energy savings in the european union, particularly in buildings and the transport sector. but we must also bear in mind the effects of the so-called ‘digital divide’, which can be seen both within and between member states. it perpetuates social and economic inequality and it reduces the capacity of ict to deliver wide-reaching benefits in terms of energy efficiency. the importance of access to high-speed internet for everyone is paramount. member states, with the assistance of the commission, should make more efforts to roll out the necessary infrastructure to ensure that all european citizens and businesses can benefit from the available technologies. this would directly address the inequality and injustice created by the digital divide, and is the only way to ensure that the energy-efficient potential of ict is fully realised.
in writing. − europe is going through a period in which it must recognise the urgent urgency of taking action to reduce the impact of human activities on the climate. the white paper on climate change is a step towards harmonising action at european level to reduce carbon emissions. with the ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent by 2020, the european union needs to move much faster than it is doing now. member states, whether new or old, are obliged to make increased and equal efforts and to understand that preventing or treating a disease in its early stages has a higher success rate than treating a chronic condition. it would be sad if europe realised too late that climate change is affecting its ability to do agriculture as the main source of food for the continent's and the world's population. we already face extremes, drought and flooding, every year. it's hard to imagine now how it could be worse than that, but experts are not very optimistic. therefore, actions to reduce the impact of human activities on the climate are key to the subsequent normality.
i have asked for the debate on the condition of the journalist arrested in transnistria, illegally arrested on sinister charges, to be replaced by a debate on thailand, as the situation in thailand has worsened dramatically in recent days. we ask colleagues from all political groups to look carefully at the situation in thailand.
mr president, corruption has been an important cause of the crisis, with powerful companies and powerful individuals misusing policies, institutions and funds for their private benefit. the challenges of corruption do not disappear with development: it only becomes more sophisticated. so far domestic efforts have not been effective in all member states. we should not ignore this reality; we should recognise it. we have reached the moment when the commission and the council must establish, as a matter of urgency, a solid anti-corruption mechanism in the union and the member states. any delay will hurt the interests of european citizens.
last week i was on a working visit to the south of spain, in the huelva region, in the midst of the seasonal workers' communities. there are very good things that we have seen there and the spanish authorities deserve congratulations, but there are also many problems related to legal and illegal immigration, employment contracts that must be signed in the future in the national language of those who want to go to work in foreign countries and also many problems related to working and housing conditions. i believe that the european union directive on the seasonal workers' scheme must reach the european parliament as soon as possible so that we can deal with the problems as usefully and efficiently as possible.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am pleased to be here for parliament’s debate on the draft recommendation put forward by ms lulling on the commission’s proposal concerning application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in self-employed activities. our proposal sends a strong signal that we cannot stand by while women fall into poverty through a lack of social protection. it also takes a big step forward in terms of promoting female entrepreneurship. i hardly need to stress the importance of both those points in the current situation. i wish to pay tribute to the efforts of the rapporteur, ms lulling, to reach an agreement with the spanish presidency on this technically complex and politically sensitive matter. the commission fully supports the text which the committee approved by an overwhelming majority on 3 may, and i urge parliament to do so too. adopting the text as it stands would send a clear message to the council and pave the way for the final adoption of the proposal. more importantly, this would make a real difference on the ground at a time when it is very much needed.
i would like to thank the commissioner and also the representatives of the council and, last but not least, mrs lulling, with whom i have had a very good cooperation, and all my colleagues on the committee on women's rights. we are indeed at an important moment in the european union, which is going through a period of crisis, and this directive comes in support of women's entrepreneurship. the european union needs to develop and support female entrepreneurship to help create jobs and ensure equal opportunities in the labour market, especially at this time. i would like to say that we have advocated in this proposal for a directive that selfemployed workers and the spouses and life partners of selfemployed workers who decide to have children should be entitled to social protection and paid leave. we support the need to ensure the protection of spouses of workers in order to remove obstacles to women's entrepreneurship and to give clear powers to national bodies promoting equal opportunities and treatment between men and women. the interruption of the labour market during maternity leave should not constitute an impediment to mothers and member states should find appropriate support methods to maintain their active role in society with a view to reconciling family and professional life. i also appreciate the importance of finding ways for these mothers to reintegrate into the business world, thereby actively contributing to the support of their own families. the exercise and protection of economic, social and cultural rights, the improvement of working conditions and family life are the fundamental objectives to be promoted by this new directive.
the reporter. − in 2008, the european union committed itself to reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to having 20% of its energy come from renewable sources. at the european council of 25-26 march 2010, union leaders set a common target of increasing energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. the building sector is responsible for 40% of total energy consumption and 35% of pollutant emissions. improving the energy performance of buildings will have a significant impact on the lives of european citizens. at union level, the average household spends 33% of its income on water, electricity, gas and maintenance, and for very low-income households, this figure can be as high as 54%. investments in energy efficiency improvements will lead to lower energy bills and the creation of 2.7 million jobs in the union by 2030. in november 2008, the commission presented a legislative proposal to reform directive 91/2002 on the energy performance of buildings. in april 2009, the european parliament adopted its position at first reading under the co-decision procedure by a very large majority. subsequently, intense negotiations between parliament and the council took place during the swedish presidency of the council of the european union and political agreement was reached on the technical aspects of the legislative proposal in november 2009. the main achievements of this agreement are: introduction of a separate article and more recitals and provisions on financing issues. the commission is to identify existing financial instruments and fiscal measures and present new proposals by 30 june 2011. these provisions are also supplemented by a commission statement. by 31 december 2020, all new buildings must have a net energy consumption close to zero, and most of the energy must come from renewable sources. for the public sector, this period is two years earlier. for buildings with near net zero energy consumption, member states will define clear targets and action plans including supporting measures. the energy performance of buildings undergoing major renovation or of the renovated parts thereof shall meet minimum energy performance requirements applicable to technical building systems and components that have a significant impact on the energy performance of the building. new provisions on certificates. a minimum set of information, including funding opportunities to be specified in the certificate. provisions on the issuing and display of energy performance certificates. inclusion of the energy performance indicator from the energy performance certificate of the building in the announcements for the sale or lease of the building or part of it. more information and transparency on accreditation and training of experts, information for landlords and tenants. consulting local authorities and supporting them in implementing the recommendations, introducing new provisions for local planners and architects to take into account the energy efficiency of buildings. introduction of intelligent metering systems and active control systems such as automation, control and monitoring systems for energy saving. there will be no common methodology but by 30 june 2011 the commission shall establish a comparative methodological framework for calculating the cost-optimal level and minimum energy performance requirements. the directive will be reviewed by 1 january 2017. the council's common position is based on the agreement concluded in november 2009 between the european parliament and the council and i therefore recommend that it be adopted.
the energy performance of buildings directive will have a direct influence on new types of investment in the construction sector. investments in new technologies aimed at reducing energy consumption will have a significant impact on the national and regional labour market and improve the energy security of the european union. financial instruments are required. european citizens cannot afford to pay for the modernisation of energy systems on their own. the maximum amount that can be allocated to this end from the european regional development fund is not sufficient and must be increased to the highest possible level. the commission should provide complementary support by establishing, by 2014, the energy efficiency fund, which could be co-financed by the european union, the european investment bank and the member states. i encourage the european commission to continue developing the 'smart urban projects' initiative and to analyse the mechanisms in place in the member states with a view to disseminating best practice across the european union and sharing knowledge and technical assistance for the creation of new financial means to improve the energy efficiency of housing.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs tsitsikou, on her work on this report. there is a great potential for energy savings in the building sector. improving the energy performance of buildings is essential to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. energy certificates are needed primarily to inform buyers about the energy performance of homes. romania has proposed to introduce energy certificates for real estate transactions as of this year, but the decision to approve the draft regulatory act has been postponed. the main reasons were the insufficient number of energy auditors and the risk of price increases in old houses. they will be introduced in romania, according to government officials, by 1 january 2011 at the latest. for citizens, the main benefit of thermal rehabilitation of dwellings will be the reduction of maintenance costs. to this end, the ministry of regional development has allocated 150 million lei this year.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we agree on the importance of the building stock, the renovation of existing buildings and the construction of new buildings for our common goals of energy efficiency and reduction of co2 emissions. in other areas, such as power stations, the energy mix in general or the automotive sector, you have relatively few players to talk to: energy companies or the 12 to 15 car manufacturing groups in europe. that means the number of partners you have to win is manageable. in the field of buildings, there are a huge number of players. the owners of the houses: tenants, users, the municipalities with their development plans, their urban development in general, the regional actors for the building laws, often the länder or the nation states, in short: no sector is as important as the building sector with the percentages of energy and climate that i have described, and no sector has so many millions of partners, vertically and horizontally, that need to be brought on board. the directive is an important step towards this, but it is certainly not the last resort. i welcome your suggestions and your contributions, we have followed them closely. please believe me, i am as concerned about the implementation of the directive as i am about the drafting of it. the directive is on paper today. it gains value in its implementation. we need all the actors, the member states, but also the local authorities and the owners and users of our buildings. we want to apply our energy-saving measures not only to new buildings but also to renovation activities. we will present our proposal on how to use the 115 million or more in concrete and timely ways in the coming weeks. we're working very hard on the preliminaries. we want to present it as late as possible to know whether it is more than 115 million euros, but in time so that no money is lost on the timetable. we are therefore ready to hold further discussions with interested members in july and september on this renewable energy and energy efficiency programme. we are currently discussing with mr hahn how we can give regional programmes a little more energy-related focus in the current financial period - he expressly supports this idea - and how we can give more weight to the subject of energy and buildings in the next financial period with the next support programmes. i need you to do that. we are already preparing for the next financial year. you know the major programmes in the budget of the european union. i do not think the member states will give us more money. in the crisis and in the course of budgetary consolidation we will probably have to be satisfied with what we have so far, this percentage approach to gdp. the priorities of energy, energy research, energy saving programmes for local actors and, in addition, infrastructure are all the more important. i would like to discuss with you, in the run-up to the next financial year, how we can link local, regional and national building renovation programmes with our objectives and, where appropriate, with a european supplementary financial programme. as i said, this is an important step, but it is not the last. that's why we're happy to take your suggestions. i am sure you will keep us under control so that the directive can be successfully put into practice. i thank all the members and the lead rapporteur, and i can tell you that this framework directive is being followed with interest in other parts of the world, in the united states and in china. europe is thus at least a step ahead of other continents.
the reporter. − i would like to thank the alternate rapporteurs first of all for their support. it is only the beginning of a process of increasing energy efficiency in the building sector, a process in which the european parliament will be a consistent and ambitious partner and which will also require transparency in the adoption of delegated acts. yes, it's true, we've made a clear distinction between new and existing buildings, taking into account both the form of ownership that differs from state to state and the existing building stock. i believe that the member states and the commission should make good use of the mid-term review of the financial perspective, which takes place in 2010, to review operational programmes and allocate more funds to the energy efficiency of buildings. member states may use a 4% erdf quota and, where they deem it appropriate, a reduced vat quota, but not less than 5%, for energy efficiency works in buildings. i would stress that all the funds allocated to energy efficiency in buildings will be found in jobs and in taxes and fees paid at local, regional or national level, given the local nature of these works. only if we increase the absorption of the 4% erdf share allocated to energy efficiency in buildings in the period 2010-2013 will we be able to ask for a significant increase in this share for the financial period 2014-2020; i suggest somewhere between 8 and 12%. in addition, i ask the european commission to allocate the remaining €115 million unspent from the european economic recovery programme to the 'smart cities' initiative. i believe that, especially in the context of planning for the financial period 2014-2020, energy efficiency should be at the top of our priorities, including with programmes dedicated to rural areas. the european parliament also called for the creation of an energy efficiency fund from 2014 at first reading. commissioner, we will support you in setting up this fund.
i congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this report and i fully agree with the need to simplify european public procurement legislation and increase transparency. i am concerned about the high number of public procurement litigation in many member states. for example, in romania, the particularly complex legislative framework leads to procedural errors and the incorrect application of public procurement regulations can be an obstacle to the use of structural funds. that is why we need a simpler and clearer legislative framework to make things easier for both sides. i would like to make one more comment on the problem of the lowest price. i agree that a public procurement contract should not be awarded simply because it has the lowest price and i agree with the rapporteur that the value for money and the economic interest of the tender should be paramount, and not exclusively the price. the revision of the legislation should therefore take this into account and introduce a little more flexibility for contracting authorities. but we must do so with great caution, because if we do not set clear criteria, we will open a real pandora's box, risking generating legal uncertainty and even corruption once again.
the value of the public procurement market at union level represents 16% of the union's gross domestic product. the internal market implies that any european company has access to purchases made in any member state. the services directive ensures that any european undertaking can provide services in any other member state, including by electronic means. the internal market needs to ensure interoperability between e-government systems and therefore also between electronic signature systems and electronic auction systems. i welcome the peppol pilot project on public procurement by electronic means launched by the commission, the decision on the list of accredited certification service providers, and the european plan to establish a european service for the validation of electronic signatures. i would point out that in 2005 member state governments committed themselves to having 50% of european public procurement by 2015 by electronic means. romania has implemented the electronic public procurement system since 2002, which has led to a reduction in public expenditure, greater transparency and increased access of smes to the public procurement market.
in the context of the global economic and financial crisis, my country's government was forced to cut budget salaries, pensions, unemployment benefits and cut subsidies. in view of these particularly tough measures, in order to ensure the correct and efficient spending of public money, public procurement needs to be carried out in the most transparent and timely manner possible. the use of electronic auction systems, which lead to the elimination of corruption and fraud in the public procurement system, should also be encouraged. the existing bureaucratic procedures, the confusing and complicated legal regime and the need to clarify the remedies for the award of procurement contracts have led to the blocking of important contracts. following consultations with the imf, the romanian government amended the public procurement law, which was to enter into force by 1 june.
as rapporteur for the s&d group on the sis issue, i will refer to it. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr coelho on the enormous amount of work he has done and, above all, on the consistency he has shown in completing these two reports. i would also like to thank commissioner malmström for the fact that, since she took office, the commission has started to be transparent. what has raised and raises our concern is the failure to meet the deadlines for implementing sis ii. parliament has repeatedly expressed its position on delays, particularly in relation to the commission's inability to set a precise date for the start of its work. the fact that we still do not know for sure whether the tests were successful or not can only raise serious doubts about the way the project is managed. given that the european parliament has an obligation to monitor how community money is spent, the proposal to reserve the funds to be allocated for the development of sis ii in the 2011 budget year is a normal precautionary measure. parliament must be consulted and kept informed on the progress of the sis ii project, which cannot be compromised by a lack of political will or management capacity. it must be relevant to the requirements of the day, take account of data protection and respect the cost-benefit principle, and be within the time limits for its implementation.
the european community's involvement in the field of asylum is guided by the principle of ensuring a high level of cooperation and solidarity between member states. this cannot be achieved at the level of individual countries. the increasing strategic use of resettlement requires a joint initiative at eu level. a solid, well-oriented programme is needed to ensure efficiency and good quality. this programme will provide an appropriate framework to ensure that member states participate in the resettlement process of refugees. member states' efforts to admit refugees should be supported and encouraged by additional financial incentives. these measures will demonstrate greater union solidarity with the global refugee problem and encourage the participation of a significant number of member states in this process.
i would like to begin, first of all, with a remark to my colleague on the left: i think the reverse example is also true - when an englishman or an irishman commits a crime in my country they can be sent back. the process of implementing the second generation schengen information system is delayed and does not appear to be able to take place before the end of 2011. i would therefore like to ask the commission what the implications are for the timetable for accession of countries which are not yet included in the schengen area. it is unacceptable that at this stage the commission cannot give a precise date for the start of operation of sis ii, which raises significant doubts about the management of this project. the additional costs and the need for new investment, should the migration to sis ii fail and the sis i+r contingency plan be reached, imply the need for much stricter budgetary control, in particular for the new agency for the regulation and coordination of the implementation of sis, vis and eurodac.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for your understanding. i would like to apologise on behalf of my colleague mr cioloş, who is delayed and who is trying to get here as soon as possible to discuss with you. he has asked me to thank the rapporteur mr alves and the shadow rapporteurs of the european parliament for the excellent work which has been achieved in the adoption of this proposal. the adoption is important because it is the first text adopted in the ordinary legislative procedure concerning agriculture and rural development following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. a very good cooperation has been established between parliament, the council and the commission during these months, and that has created the conditions for a fast adoption in first reading of this proposal. with this first experience of the ordinary legislative procedure, my colleague commissioner cioloş and his services have learned a lot, and this has set an excellent precedent for future work. the adoption of this regulation is very important for the outermost regions as it imposes technical simplifications and it also imposes derogations to the benefit of several sectors: the milk sector in the canary islands, madeira and réunion, the sugar sector for the azores and the wine sector for madeira and the azores. concerning the azores, i consider that the current circumstances justify an additional and joint effort from all of us – the public, regional governments, national governments and the european union – in order to facilitate a diversification of the agricultural activities in this region. the diversification must indeed be one of the major priorities of the outermost regions to which the treaty has acknowledged a particular status due to their specific handicaps. the diversification must allow an indigenous development that would create stability and well-being in these regions. for this reason, following the assurance received from the portuguese authorities, who committed themselves to support the sugar beet sector in the azores, i can give my agreement for the extension of a derogation which has already been granted in the past for the benefit of the sugar industry in the azores. i will listen to your comments to this text and i will try, to the best of my abilities, to answer your question on behalf of my colleague.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, congratulations to the rapporteur on the objectives mentioned in the context of agriculture in the outermost regions. the agricultural support scheme for the outermost regions of the union is an important mechanism for the continuation of agricultural activity and the maintenance of the rural landscape. i support the current exercise of reviewing the delimitation of these areas to eliminate any inconsistencies in the delimitation of these areas and consider that the application of uniform criteria ensures simplification of the implementation of the outermost regions payment scheme at eu level, increased transparency and uniform treatment of the beneficiaries of these support schemes. we all know that agriculture plays a central role in the local economy. in this context, i believe it is appropriate that measures be taken in the outermost regions of the european union to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and to promote diversification. i fully support and agree with the fundamental objectives of the outermost regions scheme, which i consider relevant and which has proved to be an effective tool for the continuation of agricultural activity in these areas.
in writing. the eu's island and outermost regions are currently facing a number of challenges, and specific measures are therefore needed to encourage their future social and economic development. the additional measures proposed by parliament and the commission to improve the situation of agriculture in the outermost regions are welcome, especially in the context of the problems facing the azores and madeira. milk is the main agricultural product of the azores, but given that several member states of the european union have recently faced a milk crisis, there is a need to reconvert the agricultural profile of these islands. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur that sugar beet is the best alternative to milk production, both in terms of economic efficiency and environmental protection, and i stress that the shipment of maximum quantities of sugar beet to continental europe must be further encouraged. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that, in the context of the current economic crisis, the post-2013 financial framework must have the principle of solidarity as its main foundation and must continue to aim at achieving high standards of territorial and social cohesion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the establishment of the european asylum support office because, in the case of member states whose national asylum systems are under pressure, the office supports the implementation of solidarity mechanisms designed to promote a better allocation of beneficiaries of international protection from the member states concerned to other member states, while ensuring that asylum systems are not abused. it is welcome that the european asylum support office will coordinate joint actions to assist member states facing specific situations, such as large flows of third-country nationals in need of international protection. it is essential to align both the laws and practices of asylum. the european asylum support office will identify good practices, organise training at european level and improve access to accurate information on countries of origin. i also believe that the activities of the european asylum support office should include the development of guidelines to facilitate a more accurate assessment of asylum applications and the monitoring of compliance with and application of the relevant community legislation.
in writing. − i consider this report to be beneficial for the energy future of the european union, as long as the objectives set are feasible and in line with the financial situation in all member states. the objectives adopted by the council on 14 april 2010 on the need to reduce the major differences between member states in the thermal efficiency of buildings, as well as the proposed target of achieving zero energy consumption in all buildings by 31 december 2020 by gradual steps by member states in 2015 and 2018, are welcome. the commission and the council must, however, take into account that many member states are still facing economic recession and will need financial and logistical support to achieve the proposed targets. the commission should consider in future the development of a financial intervention plan by allocating development funds to support member states which fail to allocate the necessary funds, in particular for rehabilitation works. this measure must be charged to the benefit of the citizen, since it is he who bears part of the costs of rehabilitation.
in writing. − the building sector is responsible for almost half of the co2 emissions not included in the eu emissions trading system and has a high potential to reduce these emissions at negative or low costs. the new energy performance of buildings directive sets out a set of minimum energy performance indicators/requirements for new buildings so that they reach near-zero energy consumption by 2020, with energy coming largely from renewable sources, and the application of these requirements to existing buildings. it is essential to inform citizens about these requirements and to encourage them to introduce smart metering systems (replacing hot water and air conditioning systems with energy efficient alternatives such as reversible heat pumps) when renovating buildings. partial funding from the union budget will be provided to stimulate energy efficiency-related measures. member states shall take appropriate measures to implement this directive swiftly. i voted for this report because the new legislation will help consumers to reduce their energy bills and thus enable the eu to achieve its target of reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020.
in writing. − the pressure of migration flows is increasing and there are a number of target countries for migration whose concern about this phenomenon must be understood. this is why it is important to have a resettlement programme that would allow for a fair sharing of responsibility for meeting international obligations to protect refugees, and to ease the burden on countries that are burdened by the large number of refugees they host. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu asylum acquis, in particular the implementation of the european asylum support office, which is a key instrument for the implementation of the eu asylum acquis. regardless of the country of resettlement, the most important thing is to provide refugees with immediate access to language and culture classes, as well as other spiritual facilities and, if necessary, psychological counseling. i believe that sustainability should be the main quality of such a programme, which is given a longer-term budgetary perspective by this decision. the beneficiaries are already traumatized by the break with the culture and traditions of their country of origin. they must build a new identity, a traumatic process that must not be accentuated by the precariousness and uncertainty of their future.
in writing. − corporate governance is an area which, although it has benefited from constant regulation, is raising new concerns, especially in the context of the current crisis. so, the accountability of managers and not just, i mean administrators, is absolutely necessary in the context of our aim to reduce systemic risk. in the case of corporations operating in strategic branches or having a large turnover or significant market share, the financial problems that such a corporation may have obviously go beyond the mere interest of the shareholders, entering the area known to 'interested parties', i.e. creditors, employees, consumers, the industry concerned or the state. in this context, the amendment of the undersigned concerning the accountability of the members of the board of directors of these corporations by requiring a fraction of its members to be professionals is in support of the reduction of systemic risks because, at present, the mere status of shareholder representative is no longer satisfactory as long as, as we have shown, the interest in the financial health and stability of certain corporations exceeds the strictly investment interest in the form of participation in the share capital. in order to encourage the social involvement of the shareholders of these corporations, which are often passive when the proportion of capital held is too small, electronic voting should also be regulated.
in writing. − the global economic crisis is just one of the factors contributing to changes in the behaviour and living conditions of young europeans, which should be a wake-up call for the member states and the union as a whole. for some time now, europe has been experiencing a demographic decline with dramatic consequences for its economies and social solidarity systems. it is worrying that young people are getting married later and having fewer children at an older age. at the same time, they are not provided with sufficient conditions for developing their skills and actively participating in society. education, employment, social inclusion and health are major concerns of younger generations, but also challenges for member states. that is why i voted in favour of the draft report drawn up by my colleague, mr papanikolaou. i am convinced that the amendments i have proposed will make a significant contribution to policy-making for young people, by ensuring their independence in decision-making, supporting their private initiatives, equal access to education for disadvantaged young people and, subsequently, their integration into the labour market. i believe that partnership with the media to promote european programmes and projects for young people is an essential element in achieving our objectives.
in writing. − educating young people is a crucial task because if mistakes are made, and they are not corrected in time, they tend to have generational consequences and are liable to be repeated, thus bringing about further degradation. the trouble with our ‘strategies’ is that, once elaborated, we become obsessed with implementation, thus neglecting the need to revisit and adjust them regularly. the current ‘strategy on youth’, essentially elaborated before the current crisis, is already facing a number of challenges: how to protect the young from the negative psychological impact of the current crisis; how to prepare them for tomorrow’s world, not today’s; how to ensure equal opportunity to education irrespective of income; how to separate ‘mobility’ from ‘brain drain’; and how to balance ‘virtual bonding’ through the net with actual bonding and team spirit through collective action. these are ‘strategic’ challenges, which need ‘strategic’ attention from decision makers in all eu countries.
in writing. - the 96 million young europeans aged 15-29 represent about 20% of the union's population. due to the economic crisis, the youth unemployment rate reached 20% at the beginning of the year, and the drop-out rate was 17%, mainly affecting young people in rural areas. young people are also increasingly exposed to temporary employment contracts, reducing their chances of financial stability and home ownership. young people are the future and we should involve them more in european decision-making. they are the ones who should be designing and acting, alongside us, for the development of the society in which we live. i call on the commission and the member states to adopt urgently a strategy and concrete measures for better involvement of young people in society. these measures should address non-discriminatory access to education to acquire the skills needed to find work that will ensure a decent living, the provision of affordable childcare services to reconcile family and working life, and support for youth employment and social housing for young people.
in writing. − it has been more than two years since the debate on the report on the situation of rural women, when we called for the necessary updates of social protection legislation. now the council is proposing a new form of the directive, but also to restrict its scope to agriculture. i think there's no reason for this limitation. the situation of rural women is very difficult, especially in the new member states, and must be the subject of constant and applied concern. but we cannot ignore, when we talk about independent activities, those who are gainfully employed in the craft and crafts, in smes and in the liberal professions. i also believe that the provisions proposed by the council which could allow member states to limit access to social protection schemes should be avoided. in accordance with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, the directive, as amended by parliament, provides the necessary framework to reduce disparities between women and men in self-employment. in this connection, i believe that the protection of maternity, through the right to at least 14 weeks' leave and maternity allowance, and the right to form legal partnerships between spouses or life partners are essential.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i considered that the adoption of the directive is of major importance at european union level, given the period of economic and financial crisis we are going through. given that in most member states, co-working spouses do not benefit from spousal social security, i argued that if a member state requires self-employed persons to join a social security scheme, it should also be mandatory for co-working spouses and life partners. it is regrettable that the council does not accept that the affiliation of spouses and life partners of selfemployed workers to social protection schemes should be compulsory where this status is recognised by national law. since the vast majority do not enroll, the benefits of social security systems that cover sickness, disability, and old age are ignored. as an alternative rapporteur on behalf of the s&d group, i argued that self-employed workers, wives and partners who decide to have children should be entitled to social protection and paid leave and not be cut from childcare allowance as the romanian government is doing.
in writing. − ukraine is now paying the price of a severe economic crisis, but also of prolonged political instability, which has made possible the deviations from the commitments made by the kiev authorities to the international financial bodies. it is important that the european union should be involved in helping its neighbour on the eastern border, given the deterioration of the social situation in the absence of the liquidity that ensures the functioning of any state. the eu is also committed to the development of the ukrainian economy, and the eu is committed to the development of the ukrainian economy. but this time the european commission must pay very close attention to the mechanisms for monitoring the path of the loan granted to kiev. in addition, the european union is in a position to call on ukraine to take a more determined approach to key reforms leading to the strengthening of the rule of law. the transition of ukraine from a state-controlled to a market economy is a difficult and painful process, especially for the population. this economic transition must be matched by institutional reform efforts. ukraine must cut into the raw meat on both counts, however difficult it may seem at this time.
in writing. − among the european states that have been severely affected by the global economic crisis is ukraine, the country in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union. the detrimental impact of the crisis on the ukrainian economy is endangering not only internal stability but also regional stability as a whole. we voted in favour of granting macro-financial assistance to ukraine, which is particularly important for stabilising and continuing economic reforms in that country. the commission and the other institutions involved - the international monetary fund, the world bank, the european development bank and the european investment bank - must urgently draw up a package of support for ukraine to identify and implement a sustainable solution to reform its economy and, in particular, its energy sector. the settlement of the problems related to the transit of natural gas through the territory of ukraine is of strategic importance. i believe that the inclusion of the issue of gas transit in the ukraine-european union association agenda was welcomed and i am convinced that this cooperation needs to be strengthened, including by finding new ways of working together. ukraine needs to be supported to continue reforms in order to move forward on the path of european integration, in line with the european union's objectives under the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union's financial assistance to ukraine because i believe that we must be united, including in overcoming the current economic crisis. as a neighbouring european country that wants to join the eu in the future, ukraine needs to receive a clear political signal to encourage the authorities to implement the reform measures agreed with the union. it is also important for us europeans to have prosperous neighbours with a stable internal policy in line with european standards and values. in this respect, we hope that the eu loan to this neighbouring country will help the whole of ukrainian society, including the more than half a million romanians in northern bukovina, northern maramureș and southern bessarabia. of course, the european commission must take all measures to ensure that this exceptional financial assistance is used judiciously, where it is needed, to produce the expected effects. the conditions for granting such assistance should be consistent with the major objectives of the eu-ukraine association agenda and the use of the funds should be subject to strict european control, with regular reporting to the european parliament.
in writing. − nobody disputes that ukraine is our “strategic partner” whose situation is of great interest to us. today, ukraine stands at a crossroads economically, given its difficult situation, and politically, with a new government that favours closer relations with russia. helping ukraine by making 500 million euro available is therefore the right decision strategically, which we will support. however, tactically, is there not a discrepancy between the level of financial support – a mere half billion compared to other schemes involving tens of billions in financial support – and the control over ukraine’s economic policy we want to achieve in exchange?! the eu does of course have strict rules that beneficiaries of its financial support have to respect, no matter the sums of money they receive, but sometimes, especially when the level of that support is relatively low, maintaining the same high conditionality reflects a political inflexibility which only diminishes the effectiveness of this instrument, especially at a time when others are much more flexible in their support.
in writing. − in my capacity of euronest vice-president, i voted in favour of the macro-financial assistance for ukraine. i hope it will be swiftly delivered in conformity with the conditions underlying the provision. i welcome in particular the involvement of the european parliament in this decision-making process as a consequence of the enactment of the treaty of lisbon provisions. the macro-financial assistance for ukraine is the first case to be decided under the new procedure. meanwhile, the delay registered in the decision-making process due to the new procedure is regrettable. i urge the eu institutions to build upon the experience of granting ukraine macro-financial assistance and avoid further delays. our eastern partners should be spared unnecessary delay. i refer in particular to the case of the republic of moldova and its pro-european government, which is still waiting for the delivery of the eu macro-financial assistance. while the republic of moldova is in urgent need of assistance, the proposal of the european commission is already unacceptably late. it will be submitted to the european parliament only this week. i call upon all eu institutions to avoid further delay in deciding on the macro-financial assistance for the republic of moldova.
in writing. - farmers have always been the most ardent and consistent supporters of the construction of the european union and they strongly believe that the cap remains a common policy in the true sense of the word. in a globalised world, the european union, with a single market, must act as one to guarantee food security and promote renewable resources, to combat climate change and to intensify research to make the most of the opportunities it offers. any cap budget cuts would cause considerable social and economic disruption and prevent agriculture from meeting future challenges. it is important to understand that farmers' incomes are dependent on direct payments, even if these alone do not ensure a decent standard of living for farmers. the average farm income in the eu, including all direct payments, is only half the average wage in the rest of the economy. i believe that reducing direct payments under the first pillar would have devastating consequences not only for farmers but equally for rural areas, for public services linked to agricultural production, for consumers and for the beneficiary society as a whole. direct payments are therefore essential and must be maintained.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy is an essential component of the european union, whether it is about ensuring food for our citizens or about conserving and protecting mountain, rural, outermost or disadvantaged areas. i voted in favour of the report because i support the need to simplify the cap. it needs to be results-oriented and more responsive. i also believe that there is a need for better cooperation between member states and local authorities in terms of the exchange of good practice. at the same time, farmers need to be well informed and receive more help from the authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which contains important provisions to remove the bureaucratic obstacles affecting european farmers, especially at a time when agriculture is being hit hard by the financial crisis. i would like to thank my colleagues who voted in favour of my amendments, thus preserving the text already approved in committee. i refer first to amendment no 49, which relates to the high rate of errors in the submission of direct payment applications in some member states, and which stresses that these errors are mainly due to the orthophotographic material used and not to the farmers. i am also referring to amendment no 65 concerning the postponement of the obligation to electronically identify sheep and goats from 2010 onwards, because of the excessive costs in the context of the economic crisis.
in writing. - we voted for the ashworth report for a common agricultural policy that is simpler and more understandable for farmers. the administration of the common agricultural policy is often far too complicated and it is therefore of the utmost importance for the whole agricultural sector that it be simplified to make life easier for farmers. the rules proposed by the european commission are often very difficult to implement and the level of bureaucracy in the member states in applying agricultural legislation is very high. in particular, legislation on animal identification needs to be revised to be more flexible and less bureaucratic. the current legislation in this area is far too rigid and often counterproductive.
in writing. − public procurement accounts for a significant share of the eu's gross domestic product. their goal is to purchase goods and services at the best value for money. european procurement directives slow down the award of contracts, make it more expensive and restrict the freedom of action of contracting authorities. unfortunately, more and more member states have been faced with such problems. that is why i voted in favour of the report, because i strongly support simplifying and modernising procedures. simplified and uniform legislation for all member states is needed. in this way we will eliminate the discrepancies between the rules applied by the member states, eliminate errors and make efficient use of public money.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest aid donor, and this year development assistance to non-eu countries is expected to reach €69 billion, 20% more than in 2008. the european union has demonstrated that it is consistent with its commitments to international institutions. the clash between european development policies and its trade policies is a reality. however, the european union has committed itself to ensuring that all community policies with an impact on developing countries take account of the development objectives it has set itself. contrary to initial forecasts, the economic crisis is particularly affecting poor countries, many of which rely on development projects funded by the eu. on the other hand, the export and agricultural policies that the eu implements in these countries have a negative effect on their development. we are therefore dealing with an unintended effect: the eu builds at the macro level and has a negative impact at the micro level. in these circumstances, the objectives set out in the resolution voted yesterday by the european parliament in plenary are becoming very important and must be taken up by all the institutions of the union.
in writing. − the european commission's concern about the lack of a uniform system for regulating road fines in the member states is legitimate. applying similar sanctions, at least at the non-financial level, to all drivers in the member states would reduce the confusion experienced by many of the transport companies or individual drivers due to legislative differences between the home country and a third eu member state in which they travel. on the other hand, the european commission and the parliamentary committees are right when they say that it is too early to think about the uniform financial sanctions for traffic offences. the european union has significant disparities in the economic situation of firms and the population, and fines for the same traffic offence may not be the same in all member states. however, the standardisation of rules for passenger transport would lead to greater accountability for transport companies. harmonizing the rules across all member states and enforcing them firmly, without leaving the latitude to each member state to take up and break european recommendations, would also lead to greater safety on europe's roads.
transplantation and organ donation save and extend the lives of thousands of european citizens every year. it is unfortunate that thousands more patients die waiting for a transplant, even though there are compatible donors in the european union. it's a controversial and difficult issue, which raises important questions. parliament's work on this report confirms the common view that any commercial element in this process, which may lead to the sale and purchase of organs, is illegal. it's essential that we approve and implement an effective system as soon as possible, not only because we'll save patients' lives, but also because such a system will reduce the demand for organs that would otherwise be procured illegally for profit and even against the will of donors.
acting president of the council. - madam president, as mr jáuregui said, the debate we are going to have next - together with the one we have just had in this house - is of extraordinary importance and i believe that it represents that historic step in humanity when the defence of human rights is not just a matter for the states - the traditional political agent, the traditional political subject of recent centuries - but becomes something that, in terms of defending humanity, goes beyond the borders of states and establishes a series of mechanisms and institutional guarantees for a better defence of its universal values. the european convention on human rights, which is probably one of the greatest treasures europe has, and the international criminal court, which extends beyond europe, are examples of the progress that is being made in our time towards the globalisation of human rights and the globalisation of the defence of human rights. as regards the european convention on human rights, i would just like to add to mr jáuregui's speech and to his excellent report - drawn up with the rapporteurs cristian dan preda and kinga gál - on this issue, the signing by the european union of the european convention on human rights. i would like to repeat many of the things that mr jauregui has said, and to stress that this accession is indeed an element of european integration - and therefore a strengthening of the european union - which will also join the great novelty of the lisbon treaty, which is the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which will work together, and that is one of the tasks - even technical, not just political but technical - of the strasbourg court and the luxembourg court, without any of the two being deprived of a millimetre of competence. and in addition, in this initiative which is provided for in the lisbon treaty, we also have an increase in the credibility of the european union in defending human rights, since we ask the countries, not of the european union, but of europe, to contribute to the strengthening of the european convention on human rights. in other words, they must ensure that the rights set out in that convention are respected and protected, and in this way the european union as such, and not just its individual members, will also be subject to the jurisdiction of the strasbourg court, and that increases our credibility, as mr jauregui's report very rightly points out. with regard to the international criminal court, i believe that we are at a moment which we can also describe as 'historic' and of very important political significance, because the rome statute review conference is due to meet in a few days' time, which is the only mandatory conference that should meet to review, if necessary, the rome statute and to take stock of this very important development which is an international criminal court. we are therefore also faced with a very important event which is being examined today in the european union in the political and security committee, which will be discussed tomorrow in coreper, and on which we hope that the council resolution will be adopted next week, so that we can join the very positive assessment of the international criminal court already made by other states, such as the latin american states within the unasur organization. we are facing an international criminal court which is in keeping with a commitment to defend human rights and therefore to prosecute crimes against humanity at the universal level, a commitment of the european union, of the member states of the european union. and i would like to remind you that there was a common position in 2003, an action plan in 2004 and an agreement on cooperation with the court by the european union in 2006. and that all the member states of the european union are now parties to the rome statute and are therefore subject to the international criminal court. and this seems to me to be extremely important in order to highlight the role of this international criminal court in the world and the commitment of the european union to its strengthening. an international criminal court which is currently working mainly on the african continent, but the kampala conference is here to tell the african peoples that we are not against africa, but on the contrary, we are with africa. that is why this review conference, which is open to all states, together with civil society and international and regional organisations, is also very important, and will allow us to assess the state of international justice at a time when this international criminal court is being established as the only permanent international criminal court.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i agree with all the speakers and with all those members who have been working on the subject. the accession of the eu to the european convention on human rights is a step of constitutional importance. it will complete the system of protection of fundamental rights within the union, and you know perfectly well that the lisbon treaty does not make this an option but a destination. i therefore welcome the fact that parliament takes such a great interest in this file – and has from the very beginning, by the way – which is evidenced by the resolution which parliament has put on the table. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the committee on constitutional rights and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their excellent cooperation on the file. i would like to thank them for the hearing which was organised and which was of real help and great use in bringing this file forward. the draft report presented by mr jáuregui atondo is, to a very large extent, in line with the position of the commission. let me just mention three points which, in my view, are very important. firstly, the commission shares the position that accession by the eu to the additional protocols of the european convention – which, by the way, have not been ratified by all member states – is also very desirable. indeed, many of these protocols are of potential relevance as regards the exercise of the union’s powers, and certain guarantees enshrined in these protocols are also reflected in the charter. the negotiation directives should therefore mandate the commission to negotiate a provision ensuring that the union may accede to any of the additional protocols. the decision then to which protocols we will de facto accede, on top of the convention itself, will have to be taken unanimously by the council after obtaining the consent of parliament. in the commission’s view, such decisions should preferably encompass all additional protocols and should be taken together with the decision concluding the accession agreement itself. secondly, it is important to deal with the specific situation of the union as a distinct legal entity vested with autonomous powers that is going to become a contracting party to a mechanism initially designed for states only. therefore, a number of limited and technical procedural adaptations to the convention are necessary with regard to the specific nature of union law. among those is the so-called ‘co-respondent mechanism’ to take account of the decentralised implementation of union law by member states. by that mechanism, the union will receive the right to join the proceedings as a co-respondent in cases brought against member states when union law is at stake. i am glad to see that parliament’s report also argues in favour of this. thirdly, i fully subscribe to the report which recommends participation by representatives of the union in the bodies of the convention on an equal footing with those of the contracting parties. such participation is indeed a key element in the smooth integration and insertion of the union into the system of the convention. you have understood this now to mean in particular the presence in the strasbourg court of a judge elected from each contracting party. the commission is therefore strongly in favour of having a permanent full-time judge elected for the union, who enjoys the same status and has the same duties as his peers. an ad hoc judge, who would intervene only in cases brought against the union or involving union law, would, in our opinion, not be sufficient. as for the method of electing a union judge, the normal procedure provided for in the convention should apply. this means that the parliamentary assembly of the council will elect a judge from a proposal for three candidates presented by the european union, and i agree with the draft report that an appropriate number of members of parliament should be allowed to participate in sessions of the assembly when it elects the judges of the european court. the procedure for drawing up the list of the three candidates is not a matter for the accession agreement: it is a matter for us. we have to do this by internal legal rules, and the idea that parliament should be involved in a way similar to that provided for by article 255 regarding the selection of candidates for the court of justice is a very interesting one which deserves close examination. honourable members, the spanish presidency attaches very high priority to this dossier, as you know, and the spanish presidency would like to reach an agreement before the end of june. if the council could reach an agreement by then – which i hope it will – this will allow us to then start accession negotiations after summer. as i already said two weeks ago in brussels, i will ensure that the commission – as the union’s negotiator – keeps parliament fully informed throughout the negotiation process. this all relates to european affairs, but we also have the question of international human rights on the agenda. as you know, 138 states took a step forward in 1998 when they adopted the rome statute creating for the first time in history a permanent international court to ensure that perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are brought to account. the court started to operate in 2003 and now, seven years later, we have the review conference in kampala, which invites us to conduct an early analysis of the court’s activities, of the challenges that lie ahead and of the effectiveness of eu support. as regards the activities of the court, we know that the court is fully operational, but is still in its infancy. no judicial cycle has been completed, but the icc is considering the situation in five countries: one trial has started, another trial is going to start on 5 july and one further case is in the pre-trial stage – all for dar and drc. let us not forget that this is only a court of last resort, so the primary responsibility lies with the states themselves. in most cases, the court acts as a catalyst for states to investigate and prosecute cases before national courts. at the same time, in its short life, the court has been a powerful deterrent for future atrocities because perpetrators now know that justice will prevail and, in this sense, the court faces challenges. the ratification by bangladesh brought the number of state parties to the rome statute to 111. however, it is very clear that we have to go for universal acceptance of the statute and of the court. the court needs the participation and the cooperation of all state parties and non-parties, as well as international and regional organisations. the court cannot perform its functions without the states arresting those for whom an arrest warrant has been issued by the icc; nor if the witnesses cannot be protected; nor if there are no prisons for those who have been condemned, and that is why the eu supported the court over the last ten years to help solve these problems. we, as the eu, have from the outset been staunch supporters of the establishment of the court as an essential mechanism in the new international order designed to end impunity which, as you know, has seen millions of people in recent history subjected to crimes but only a handful of those responsible brought to justice. the eu considers that an effective icc is an indispensable instrument for the international community to combat this impunity and to promote a rule-based international order. that is why we have been supporting the court using the various instruments at our disposal that the minister has already mentioned. the common position was translated into an action plan. we were the first organisation to enter into a cooperation and assistance agreement with the court in 2006, and we give the icc full political and diplomatic support with démarches, political dialogues and statements. the inclusion of icc clauses in international agreements is now standard practice for the european union. since 2000, the european initiative – later entitled the european instrument for democracy and human rights – has contributed eur 29 million to support the court directly or indirectly, notably through global civil society campaigns. the eu has also adopted several decisions in the justice, freedom and security area with a view to strengthening cooperation among member states in the investigation and prosecution of rome statute crimes at national level, so we do our best in order to advance the system. the system needs further perfection, but it needs strong engagement by all nations around the globe for this to happen.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - i will refer to the report of mr jáuregui atondo. i would first of all like to congratulate him on the preparation of this excellent report which, i believe, deals in an exhaustive manner with both the advantages and the challenges of the european union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in the light of the opinion i drafted for the afet committee, i would like to emphasise the main contribution of the union's accession to the echr. it is something that may seem obvious today, in the post-lisbon period, but it is something that has been a periodically reiterated hope for the last thirty years. i consider that accession to the echr will enhance the union's credibility in the human rights dialogue with third countries, confirming once again to all that the union is, above all, a community based on the rule of law. the institutions of the union, like those of the council of europe member states, will thus be subject to the external and independent control of the court of strasbourg, in accordance with the formula 'one human rights standard, one court'. in view of the existence of a single human rights standard, i must stress that accession to the echr is also an opportunity for the union to accede to other treaties in the strasbourg system. i am, of course, referring to the additional protocols, the revised european social charter, which, as we know, complements and deepens this protection at the pan-european level. moreover, i believe that an increased participation of the european authorities in the council of europe bodies specialised in the protection of human rights is the logical consequence of this single standard of protection. as i also stressed in my opinion for afet, a balance must also be struck between preserving the specificity of the european legal order on the one hand and preserving the strasbourg judicial system, which has proved its usefulness for the protection of human rights at pan-european level, on the other.
madam president, i will speak on the union’s accession to the european convention on human rights. i want to underline that i am going to speak as a lawyer. i would like to draw attention to the role of the court of justice in the construction of the european union’s accession to the european convention. in particular the requirement in the european convention on human rights that the applicant must exhaust domestic remedies before applying to the european court of human rights must be transposed into a procedure which would give the court of justice in every case the opportunity to decide as the last domestic remedy before the strasbourg court looks into the matter. i mainly refer to the cases where member states apply eu law and member states are sued by individual applicants following the application of that eu law. the court in luxembourg must first be given the possibility to apply the convention in such cases. let us not forget that the court in luxembourg has been applying the convention for years. in relation to this, i would like to recall the european court of human rights’ finding in the case of bosphorus airlines vs. ireland in 2005. i quote, ‘the protection of fundamental rights by community law can be considered to be equivalent to that of the convention system’. along with my colleagues, i welcome the union’s accession to the convention, but at the same time i ask for a very careful analysis of the procedure we put in place, as we need to protect citizens’ interests and at the same time to preserve what is working well.
in writing. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty creates the legal framework for the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights (echr), with the eu becoming the 48th signatory to the convention. eu accession to the echr will complement the level of protection established by the lisbon treaty through the charter of fundamental rights, which has binding legal force. the european court of human rights in strasbourg will acquire jurisdiction to exercise judicial review over the acts of eu institutions, bodies and agencies, including judgments of the european court of justice, with regard to compliance with the convention, thus creating additional judicial review in the field of fundamental rights within the eu. following accession, the convention will constitute the minimum standard of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in europe and will be binding in particular in situations where the protection afforded by the eu is inferior to that afforded under the convention. i believe that both the member states and the commission will have to draw up information programmes containing explanations of all the implications and effects of accession so that the citizens of the union are fully aware of the significance of this process.
in writing. the european union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is a logical step following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and stimulates deeper integration and the building of a common political space. eu accession to the echr will bring more coherence between the union and the countries belonging to the council of europe and its pan-european human rights system. in my view, the most important consequence of accession to the echr is that it will provide citizens with protection against the actions of the union similar to that which they enjoy against the actions of all the member states. this is a substantial development, given that the member states have transferred important competences to the union. it is logical that there should be the possibility of appealing to the european court of human rights against decisions of the union as a whole. since we are talking about european citizenship, it must also be given a concrete content, including this possibility. i hope that this additional tool put at the disposal of european citizens will be easily accessible, especially as the accession decision will contribute to creating a more coherent human rights framework within the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the stockholm programme is undoubtedly ambitious, but we still need to adopt an action plan that would implement it in the most efficient way. efficiency means not only a suitable timetable, but it also refers to the content of the legislation that we will adopt in the coming years and to the institutions that will be built upon in the future. if we want the union to be more coherent, we have to work towards a level of trust and mutual recognition in the judicial area or on police cooperation, similar to the principle which has governed the eu single market. to achieve it we need to shift our views on our legal traditions, which should no longer be perceived, used or misused to prevent us having minimum standards, particularly in criminal law. our citizens demand and deserve better protection against terrorism and against organised or trans-border crime. it is our duty to provide for this protection, but we have to do it while fully respecting not only the rights of the victims but also those of the defendants as well. this is why minimal procedural standards must apply to all eu member states and if we need to be bold for these, we shall be. we will be bold when entrusting eurojust with more power or when we have to protect the data of our citizens or when we will have to regulate on the asylum package. my political group is determined to constructively work with the commission and the council and, at the same time, to persistently fight for the protection of human rights.
madam president, i would like to refer to the mechanism to assess corruption in the member states – the mechanism that is provided for in the action plan. we have a council decision for the stockholm programme, which refers to this matter, and we have the commission action plan on implementing the stockholm programme. they both refer to an evaluation of the anti-corruption efforts in the member states. therefore, we need strong political will and commitment from the member states for such a mechanism to come into place. i say this because we all know that, so far, the domestic efforts have not been effective in all member states, to say the least. secondly, the deadline for the communication in the action plan on the union’s policy and mechanism against corruption is 2011. i would like to suggest having it done before the end of 2010. this would better respond to the need of combating corruption in the union, as corruption is also seen as a cause of the economic crisis. therefore, it would be a measure to stop and prevent it.
member of the commission. − i hope the honourable member will respect the fact that i will not go into detail about one draft out of many that has been leaked. it would not be appropriate for me to do so. i said during my hearing at the european parliament that we should take care that when we spend european union money for different purposes we also ensure that the different projects – infrastructure was mentioned for instance – are being climate-proofed. i do not, however, think that anybody can give an answer at this stage as to exactly how we would do that if we were to go to a 30% reduction by 2020. instead, we are trying to provide an analysis and invite the members of parliament and the council, among others, to take part in the debate.
today we voted on the report on the amendment of the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings. it's just the beginning of a new process where we can really reduce emissions and energy use in buildings significantly. as my colleague said, we need funds and i hope we will have your support for a significant increase in the erdf share allocated to energy efficiency in housing, and also for the creation of a fund, starting in 2014, to improve energy efficiency, including in the industrial sector.
member of the commission. - madam president, you asked me about something i want to confirm, namely how the commission will act. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i can confirm that this is not the direction we have chosen. the approach we favour is to create a regulatory framework which promotes pan-european copyright licences. this is a pragmatic approach, which would achieve the desired results more effectively than the introduction of a new single, centralised copyright title. i would also like to say that this green paper is very important and should make it possible to ask a lot of questions and to advance ideas. i am thinking in particular of the problem of the visually impaired. you ask why we are not more ambitious on the creation of a single european copyright. the biggest obstacle, madam member, to the introduction of a community copyright title is that, to be effective, such a title should necessarily take precedence over national copyright. in other words, the european union title should prevail over national copyright titles, which frankly seems culturally and politically difficult to accept. and even if such an approach were accepted by the member states, it would have a rather limited effect because it could not be applied to old works. it could only apply to newly created works. the new title would therefore not apply to all pre-existing musical compositions. i also said why i wanted to work on a directive on orphan works. but before i can finally draw up this draft directive, i shall take care to consult the members of parliament, including yourself, who are most committed to this matter.
i would like to ask you if you are considering revising the copyright directive in the information society. i say this because we need legal certainty. unfortunately, in particular, the exceptions have been interpreted differently in different countries, which has led to different decisions on the same case in different member states. that is why i think it is useful to have a review, especially in the light of the new lisbon treaty.
indeed, social housing is about services of general interest. unfortunately, today, youth unemployment in the european union has reached 20%. under the european regulation, there is a 4% quota from the european regional development fund which can be used by all member states for the construction of social housing and for the energy efficiency of buildings. unfortunately, as a result of the economic crisis, the economic situation of european families is deteriorating, and the extremely high unemployment among young people is a cause for concern. that is why i would ask you, commissioner, to support us in raising this quota for social housing and energy efficiency of buildings to 15% in the next financial programming period. in most member states, health, education and social services, as well as care for the young and the elderly, are the responsibility of the state. these public services play an important role in the protection and inclusion of all citizens in society, provided that they are accessible to all citizens. in order to ensure that this is the case throughout the european union, we call on the commission to draw up a framework directive on public services, introducing minimum requirements in this area and guaranteeing equal and universal access for all european citizens, as well as the quality and transparency of these services.
i thank the commissioner for his clarifications on this matter. i do not think there should be a single definition of social housing either; such a definition would be difficult to use in the context of the wide differences in living standards. the issue of subsidiarity is relevant in this debate. i'll allow myself to go a little beyond the concrete framework of the question. i think there should be a clearer set of standards, but in another respect, for example, in situations where the new rules on housing eligibility are applied in favour of marginalised communities. it is a regulation which this parliament adopted in february and which my colleague, mrs tsitsou, has also mentioned. i too would like to take this opportunity to say that we would welcome an increase in the funds available under this regulation.
i welcome the commission's initiative. i think it is important to discuss this subject, even if the accident did not occur in an area under the jurisdiction of a member state of the european union. there are currently many oil rigs operating in the territorial waters of the member states. this activity is expected to increase, as the international energy agency estimates that only 5% of marine oil reserves are currently known. it is important to see what lessons are to be learned from the gulf of mexico disaster, what is the current situation in the waters where such operations are carried out in the member states of the union and whether additional measures are needed to increase the safety of both workers on these platforms and additional measures to prevent accidents with disastrous consequences for vulnerable areas in europe. another lesson that we need to learn from the deep water horizon disaster, and from the past, is that we need to look very carefully at how the operating licenses are granted and what the existing contracting practices are. we have to make sure that taking responsibility is inevitable. a company that is entering into a business with a certain degree of risk, that has to be countered by specific safety measures and that can make a lot of money from it, must also be prepared to bear the consequences if an accident occurs. if you've been following the investigation of this disaster in the united states, the chain of contractual relationships established between multiple companies allows companies to blame each other while oil continues to spill into the sea. we cannot tolerate a similar situation here. we therefore need to review the legislation in this area and make any improvements to the legislative framework to ensure that we reduce the risks of such an event occurring. past experience shows that accidents leave behind huge human and environmental damage, and the processes of establishing responsibility can take years. the commission should ensure that legislation on safe exploitation of oil resources is not too permissive and assess the extent to which it needs to be changed to reduce the use of liability avoidance.
we support investment in european energy infrastructure, but only if it is completely safe to build and operate. i also call for any project for the extraction or transport of hydrocarbons underwater to be carried out only after a serious assessment of the environmental impact. i have repeatedly called for the establishment of european centres for maritime accident response in all member states with sea-lanes, which is where this type of accident comes in. last but not least, all companies involved in the extraction and transport of hydrocarbons underwater should provide guarantees and have insurance to cover damages in the event of accidents.
author. − madam president, mr simpson apologises for not being present during the discussion on the ash cloud crisis. ironically, in view of this evening’s discussion, he has been caught up in the flight restrictions related to the ash cloud restrictions in the uk and therefore has been unable to travel to strasbourg for the discussion. i will therefore be speaking on his behalf this evening. the oral question on the volcanic ash crisis is just as relevant today, in the context of the ongoing disruption to airspace, as it was at the time of the initial eruption of the icelandic volcano last month, when we saw much of eu airspace closed for six days. we are now dealing not only with the aftermath of that disruption and its financial impact but also with the present ongoing uncertainty of continued and prolonged disruption to european airspace. while i believe that some important lessons have been learned and acted on following the unprecedented scale, duration and cause of the initial airspace shutdown, it is clear that the response at european level needs to be stepped up a gear in the face of ongoing disruptions. faced with the challenges that the unprecedented nature and unspecified duration and the disruption is causing to air travel, i am concerned today to get assurances that the mechanisms we have in place for coping with the disruption are working effectively and that, where gaps have been identified over the last few weeks, these are being adequately addressed. i am pleased to say that the air passengers’ rights regulation has proved vitally important in providing a safety net to ensure that it is not the passengers who bear the brunt of the financial consequences of the disruption and who are not left stranded by the chaos. the airspace closure has, however, raised important questions about airlines fulfilling their obligations when it comes to air passengers’ rights, especially in the light of any compensation afforded to the aviation industry. what feedback is the commission getting on the treatment of passengers, and what assurances can it give that airlines are fulfilling their obligations in line with the legislation? furthermore, the current situation has exposed the vulnerability of those passengers booked on third-country airlines for whom the air passengers’ rights legislation does not apply. how does the commission propose to address this gap in the legislation? we also – very early on in this crisis – recognised the heavy financial losses suffered by the aviation industry during the airspace shutdown. my concern with any compensation package made available to the aviation industry is to ensure that compensation is directed at the different sectors of the aviation industry – not just the airlines – and that the compensation measures are of an eu-wide nature. i know that some member states will be more sympathetic than others when it comes to giving financial aid to their airlines. what assurances is the commission able to give that some conditions will be levelled to avoid any distortions in the compensation handed out at member state level and to ensure a level playing field? i now turn to the most pressing concern today, which is over the procedures in place for defining no-flight zones in the eu. the continued disruption to european airspace has once again put the procedures applied for defining no-flight zones under the spotlight. there are concerns that member states are being over-cautious in their implementation of no-flight zones and that aeroplanes are safe to fly amid higher densities of ash than are currently allowed by eu rules. the ongoing closure and opening of airspace by member states over the last few weeks has very much highlighted the need for a more joined-up approach at eu level, rather than the differentiated approach we are currently seeing. i am also aware that the commission has put renewed emphasis on improving data collection and modelling methodologies to give a more detailed picture of the risks involved for aeroplanes flying through an ash cloud. how does the new information we have impact on the restrictions currently in place and the definition of the no-flight zones? finally, we have seen the value of increased european coordination when it comes to responding to the ash cloud crisis. further areas where we have recognised the importance of greater cooperation include the acceleration of the single european sky initiative and the creation of a mobility action plan to help the eu cope better during such crises.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to provide an update on the evolution of the icelandic volcano crisis, which of course is linked to aviation. the european union has been heavily affected by the consequences of the eyjafjallajökull volcano eruption in iceland. the volcano eruption laid a cloud of volcanic ash over most of europe. volcanic ash contains many problematic substances that are harmful to aircraft and, in particular, their engines. the presence of this safety threat in the sky forced national authorities to take decisions, in accordance with the relevant procedures developed at international level, to close off all affected airspace. the european union immediately mobilised resources to tackle the most pressing problems. taking into account evolutions in the situation and the need for a more differentiated approach to the model and risk management procedures, the commission took the initiative, over the weekend of 17 and 18 april, with the spanish presidency and eurocontrol, to propose a coordinated european approach. as a result of this work, in full cooperation with member states and the industry, new procedures were defined. at the extraordinary meeting of eu transport ministers that took place on 19 april 2010, this new procedure was endorsed, thereby allowing for a gradual reopening of airspace in a coordinated manner as of 08.00 on 20 april 2010. as a follow-up to this immediate action, the commission produced a report addressing the impact of the volcanic ash cloud crisis on the air transport industry. it received broad support from the council of transport ministers at its extraordinary meeting of 4 may 2010. whereas the focus of the report was to address the current volcano crisis, it has nevertheless sought equally to address the european union’s need to be able to deal effectively with similar crisis situations in the future, should they arise. the events of the past 10 days have shown that the situation is far from being resolved at this stage. the volcano continues to be active, and recurrent closures of airspace continue to take place, depending on the weather conditions affecting the dispersion of the ash cloud. the commission is therefore committed to ensuring a prompt follow-up to the transport council conclusions as adopted on 4 may 2010. i am happy to report the first steps taken as a consequence. the european crisis coordination cell has been agreed with effect from 11 may 2010. the final arrangements for setting it up are being made this week. the nomination of a functional airspace blocks coordinator was endorsed by the single sky committee on 7 may 2010. the designation of eurocontrol’s performance review committee as an ses performance review body was also carried out by the single sky committee on 7 may 2010. the european aviation safety agency (easa) has been given the task of defining binding standards for engine ash tolerance levels. the commission will shortly be calling for the creation of a task force to explore how the current european forecasting and dispersion models can be improved so as to enhance associated risk assessment and risk management in such crisis situations. there is more to come as the commission works towards meeting the council of transport ministers’ expectations, as expressed in their conclusions of 4 may 2010.
on behalf of the epp group. the volcanic eruption in april showed that european air traffic is unprepared to respond adequately to unexpected disruptions. there was no coordination, flexibility or maximum use of flight conditions. the ses ii package was adopted in november 2009 in record time, as also mentioned in the commission's information note. the adoption was achieved despite the resistance of the member states. besides, the translation and publication took longer than the negotiation. the crisis came and the utility of implementing the ses ii package was found. my view is that if the member states were to give up their present reticence, we could have a single european sky in a very short time. this means having a direct route network and effective traffic control that does not take into account national borders. unfortunately, this is not yet desirable and the only solution is to implement the ses ii package very quickly. the commission has proposed emergency measures which are already required by the approved regulations. these are very good measures. the main thing is to have the functional aerospace blocks in place by the end of 2012 at the latest. but this requires the guidance provided for in the regulation, which unfortunately is not mentioned in the council conclusions of 4 may. the absence of the guide may be used by member states as a reason for delay. the guide should also be the instrument by which we can achieve, within the required time, not only coordinated traffic areas but a real single european sky. the guide shall provide for traffic control within the blocks, carried out in coordination with neighbouring blocks, so that there are no overlapping areas. otherwise, we will replace the current national borders with block borders and extend the deadline for the implementation of the single european sky unnecessarily. i do not think we need to think in the future that there will be a need for a ses iii regulation to unite the blocs. this approach also allows the implementation of sesar to take place under optimal conditions and at minimum cost. in 2011, the last remaining member states will join the schengen area. it is unacceptable, i think, that we have no borders on the ground, but we maintain them in the sky.
mr president, i would like to make a point on the situation in those member states that are not members of the eurozone but which still share the same preoccupation. political leaders in our countries have been selling the idea that eu membership should be seen as a guarantee against hard economic times, but reality has now proven differently. the euro is constantly attacked from all sides despite all the efforts made, and we all know that fresh money is only a quick fix for a much deeper problem. this is an exceptionally serious situation and we need exceptional answers. let us face it, there is no escape from deeper economic integration and this therefore implies closer political union. because this imbalance leads to daunting divergences between member states, and to ensure financial discipline at european level, we need good governance, sanctions and compliance mechanisms. we need to find ways to encourage investment, attract capital and boldly cut bureaucratic expenses. we need to see intelligent measures taken by governments. in romania, for example, the government is cutting pensions and salaries instead of reducing bureaucratic expenses or money for political clients. we have in romania more employees of secret services than the fbi has but, instead of cutting here, we are cutting doctors and teachers. i strongly encourage the commission to stand by the proposed measures and not to give up under member states’ pressure, because only a few can be seen as examples these days.
the measures proposed by the commission and the council are very welcome. if these measures had been taken some time ago, they could have prevented much of the effects of the crisis we are experiencing. the lack of economic governance has led to decisions being taken under pressure and without consulting the european parliament. furthermore, there are no mechanisms to follow up on the measures taken. last year, large sums were injected into the banks. it was necessary, but the bailout of the banks did not help to alleviate the crisis afterwards. the crisis continued. the stability and growth pact has not been respected. it's reached unauthorized deficits. states have taken different measures in similar situations. some have decided to tell the citizens the truth and take austerity measures. the lack of common rules creates different effects on european citizens, even though all member states have contributed to the crisis. you can't consume more than you produce, you can't spend more than you can collect. financial stability is needed and therefore proposals to create a new financial stability mechanism or a european monetary fund are absolutely necessary. these measures must, however, be matched by a coherent strategy for economic recovery and control and penalty mechanisms. we can thus say that we will achieve real and effective economic governance for the benefit of all member states.
in this time of economic crisis, the europe 2020 strategy seems a real challenge. on the other hand, it's also an opportunity. it can be an important stimulus to support the long-term economic and social reforms needed. the principles that must underlie it are solidarity and adaptability. i believe that the allocations for the cohesion funds should be maintained, as they play a fundamental role in reducing the differences in economic development between the regions of the union. it is also clear that objectives set at european union level cannot automatically become national objectives. they must be adapted to the possibilities of each country. the government of romania has set up a high-level working group that will set national targets and at the same time play a coordinating role in the development of the national reform plan.
we all know that the europe 2020 strategy was launched to help us get out of the current economic crisis and prepare the eu economy for the new decade. it is important, however, that the european union's 2020 strategy does not provide any clear direction for the revision of one of the most important common policies, namely the reform of the common agricultural policy. this is all the more so as the reference to agriculture as a key political instrument for achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy was made only at the last moment, and it is therefore not surprising that agricultural policies are barely mentioned in this document. in this respect, the eu 2020 strategy includes some ideas for the future cap, but fails to give it its key strategic role in a broader, global approach that takes into account the enormous challenges posed by the prospects of doubling global food demand and climate change.
in writing. if there is one lesson worth learning from the current economic crisis, it must be solidarity. the fact that we live in a globalized world, with economies that are interdependent, is not new. however, states have not been able to break out of the logic of isolation, in which solutions to economic challenges are taken at the national level without considering their wider impact. the lisbon strategy was a failure because it lacked the political commitment of the member states to deliver on its objectives. for strategy 2020 to succeed where the lisbon strategy has failed, more effective monitoring of national reform programmes at european level is needed. equally, social inclusion must be the main objective of good economic governance, and state actors must learn to put people first, not economic profit.
in writing. the economic crisis of recent years has contributed to the failure of the eu's objectives set in the early 2000s. it is therefore important to identify the shortcomings of the lisbon agenda, and to focus on the positive results achieved and to avoid the mistakes made in the past. i think it is important now that we can learn from the failure of the lisbon strategy and have the capacity to act to mitigate these effects in the future. i believe we have the great advantage of knowing the causes of failure and being able to avoid them in the new eu 2020 strategy. i'd focus here specifically on strengthening the multilevel governance. we need to involve local and regional authorities and civil society in the governance process because according to eu statistics, local and regional actors have the highest level of trust among citizens. at the same time, strengthening the regional dimension is one of the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy and in this regard i believe that the role of future cohesion policy is to identify and exploit the specific local potential.
in writing. the report captures in precise terms the important contribution that the structural and cohesion funds make to european economic life and to the achievement of the objectives we set ourselves in the eu 2020 agenda. a few ideas are worth highlighting: the key role played by cities in achieving these goals, and the role played by research and education. i also regret that the report does not cover a wider spectrum by including the role played by rural development funds. by boosting rural economic life, modernising european agriculture, helping to establish young farmers and disseminating best practice, rural development funds make an important and welcome contribution to overall economic progress across the european union.
in writing. reducing the eu poverty rate by at least 25% by 2020 is closely linked to increasing the employment rate and is a priority in social inclusion policy. an ambitious long-term anti-poverty strategy is therefore needed, with far-reaching poverty reduction targets, with the 'centre' being on increasing employment and quality jobs, including for women, young people, the elderly and the working poor. this should include measures to reconcile family and working life, enhanced participation in an open labour market, including the lifting of access restrictions for workers from romania and bulgaria. another poverty reduction target is a minimum income of at least 60% of the nationally equalised average income, a minimum wage of at least 60% of the average wage in the nationally relevant sectors, and a coordinated housing strategy in europe. all these measures must be accompanied by a clear timetable that is easy to implement and monitor.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has necessitated the adoption of austerity measures in many member states and the reform of old structures. once again, it has been proven that a crisis can accelerate the launch of major reforms. the european union must also consider how it will respond to new challenges, how it will be able to better coordinate the interests of the member states and thus strengthen internal cohesion, and how it will be able to increase its competitiveness. i believe that a greater consideration of the specific situation of the new member states in the implementation of reforms is key not only to the success of the europe 2020 strategy but also to the future of the union. i ask the council to pay particular attention to this, particularly in the context of structural adjustments linked to the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy.
in writing. − the proposal for a directive on the labelling and standard product information of energy and other resource consumption of energy-related products is part of the energy efficiency package tabled by the commission in november 2008, together with two other proposals on the energy performance of buildings and the labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency. i voted in favour because, by the agreement reached between parliament, the council and the commission, we have achieved the introduction of an improved labelling system. the labels will contain more information on the energy consumption of household and energy-impact products and in the future this labelling will also apply to energy-consuming products for industrial and commercial purposes, which was not possible until now. last but not least, in future any advertising that promotes the price or energy efficiency of product categories will also have to indicate the energy class of the products. the provision of accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy consumption of energy-related products will enable consumers to make informed and efficient choices in the future, thereby reducing both energy consumption and household expenditure.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the amendment of the energy labelling directive, by including all energy-related products, will generate a €4 million reduction in transposition costs for each updated and newly developed implementing measure (if regulations/decisions are used instead of directives) and will result in an additional reduction of approximately 78 mt of co2 emissions. in future, energy-efficiency labelling will also apply to energy-consuming products for industrial and commercial use, such as refrigerated rooms, display cases, industrial cooking facilities, vending machines (sandwiches, snacks, soft drinks, coffee, etc.), industrial engines, energy products, including construction products, which do not consume energy but have a direct or indirect impact on energy savings, such as door and window heels. an important role in the correct application of this directive is to ensure that every citizen has access to accurate information and to raise consumers' awareness of the impact of the choices they make. the provision of accurate, relevant and comparable information on the specific energy consumption of energy-related products will help end-users to make energy-saving decisions with a view to reducing energy bills in the long term.
in writing. − in recent years, the need for organ transplantation has increased steadily and rapidly in the european union. while the shortage of organs remains the main challenge at present, there are many more difficulties linked to the different transplant systems applicable in the member states. as early as 2008, the european parliament, through its resolution adopted in april, called on the european commission to draw up a directive establishing the legal framework for ensuring the quality and safety of organ donation within the european union. the commission has therefore put forward a proposal for a directive, which is being debated in the european parliament and has three objectives: to ensure quality and safety for patients at eu level, to ensure the protection of donors and to facilitate cooperation between member states. i voted in favour of the compromise reached between parliament, the council and the commission because we need common standards of quality and safety for the collection, transport and use of human organs at union level, which would facilitate organ exchanges, thus bringing benefits every year to the thousands of european patients who need this type of treatment.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution, given that thrombin is an additive that cannot be considered a food safety concern. meat containing thrombin could only be sold in a labelled form, bearing the words 'combined cuts of meat' and all ingredients being indicated on the label, as required by law. citizens could thus make an informed choice, so we cannot claim that they were misled. the use of thrombin could enable many citizens to buy food at much more affordable prices.
in writing. − i fully support this resolution and the efforts to prevent the authorisation of thrombin or ‘meat glue’. it is misleading for consumers because they assume they are buying a single piece of meat, but in fact they are buying many pieces which have been artificially stuck together. industry has argued that use of this substance enables them to create cheap meat for people who cannot afford more expensive products, but the fact is that it enables industry to sell smaller pieces of meat for more money, not less. and there is a health issue here too – many small pieces of meat glued together have a much larger surface area than a single, larger piece, which significantly increases the area on which pathogenic bacteria can thrive. misleading the consumer is contrary to eu law, and there are potentially serious health implications of using this substance in this way. this is why in voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the european commission presented in 2008 an action plan on organ donation and transplantation for 2009-2015, with the aim of improving cooperation between member states in the field of organ donation through the exchange of good practice. the actions provided for in this plan complement the european legal framework provided for in the commission's proposal for a directive on organ donation and transplantation. although there are currently significant differences between member states in terms of practices and outcomes, the exchange of information and good practices will help countries where organ availability is low to improve their availability rate. other actions in the plan are to improve the quality and safety of organ transport, to create a register for the evaluation of post-transplant results, to create a system of organ exchange for special cases such as children or people with special needs. i voted with my colleagues in the european parliament in favour of such a plan, which will facilitate cooperation between member states and combat organ trafficking.
in writing. - organ transplantation is the last chance for life for thousands of people every day. in romania, 13 people on the transplant waiting list die every day from lack of donors. romania faces a dramatic situation with only one donor for every million inhabitants. the romanian parliament tried to introduce the concept of a presumed agreement, but public debates blocked the process each time. the commission and the european parliament are simply trying to put things in order, to make recommendations in a system which is important for saving as many lives as possible. the funding of the health care system is not to be neglected. organ harvesting and transplantation, as well as post-transplant care, are expensive medical operations, but all national states should make efforts to encourage this type of medical procedure. spain is an example, because it has managed to attract the largest number of donors in the european union. no one needs to reinvent the wheel as long as we have a successful example in our own midst. in these circumstances, the encouragement given by this directive to cooperation between member states and the exchange of organs, strictly regulated by quality and safety standards, is welcome.
in writing. − following the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union obliges the union to accede to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i support this because the credibility of the union in the eyes of its citizens will be enhanced by ensuring that rights are respected. by acceding to the convention, citizens will obtain the same protection from the actions of the union and its institutions as they currently enjoy from the actions of the member states. at the same time, we will also achieve closer cooperation between the court of justice of the european union, the european court of human rights and national courts.
in writing. − the organisation of the icc conference in uganda is an important signal for the acceptance of this international institution on the african continent, especially as the first investigations of the court since its establishment in 2002 were launched here. no one can deny the importance of such an international court that investigates serious cases of human rights violations, genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. it is therefore important that more and more states recognize the authority of the international criminal court and that the states signatory to the rome statute urgently ratify the agreement. the idea of an international tribunal to investigate crimes against humanity was first mooted in 1919 at the paris peace conference. it took 83 years to reach an international agreement and establish the icc. now, the states that have ratified the rome statute of the icc must also regulate the court's right to investigate crimes of aggression. and the signatory states must harmonize their national legislation with the provisions of the rome statute, as they have committed themselves to do.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr cortés lastra on the work he has done in drawing up his report, which once again underlines the importance of cohesion policy in achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. we need to ensure that the role of cohesion policy focused on regions is recognised as such within this strategy. we all know that the effective implementation of the strategy will depend very much on how it is designed. i therefore believe that local and regional authorities must be involved from the design stage to ensure that they can produce truly effective results at a later stage. better governance at several levels is also a guarantee for the effective implementation of cohesion policy at national, regional and local level. as beneficiaries of this policy, i believe that the member states must retain their key role in the decision-making process on cohesion policy within the council. finally, i would like to welcome the recognition of the role of the structural funds in achieving the objectives of the strategy, but i would like to draw attention once again to the fact that we must not fall into the trap of using these funds in the future as an instrument for sanctioning member states. such a measure would, i believe, be totally at odds with the real objectives of cohesion policy.
europe 2020 must be a europe of the citizens and respond to their needs. this is the approach i believe should underpin this strategy. it is important that in the new european framework we continue the development directions and objectives already set, which must be followed in order to achieve concrete results and to achieve a positive impact. i am referring specifically to investments in infrastructure of all kinds, to become much more economically competitive. the continuation of the policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion is needed to reduce disparities between regions and to lay the foundations for balanced economic development, as stipulated in the treaty of lisbon. europe 2020 must be a europe of global action that can be achieved if there is a common level of development within the european union that increases the capacity of local and regional actors to respond to global challenges. europe 2020 is a europe where regions develop according to their specific potential and use the regional dimension of research, development and innovation for economic growth and job creation.
officer, please! i believe that any plan or strategy for european development must be guided by the idea of building a europe that is truly a single area, at the service of the european citizens. we have talked a lot about the economic and social dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. but the union is now much more than that. the union is not only a community of interests but also a community of values, and its economic strength and political weight are derived from this. if we really want to build a more successful and competitive europe by the end of the decade, we must pay serious attention to properly respecting, strengthening and validating our common values. we must also pay attention to better coordination of member states' education policies, to reducing regional disparities, to the enlargement process, or to guaranteeing fundamental rights and minority rights, to name just a few policies based on european values. economic growth and improvements in the living conditions of citizens are unthinkable without such values-based policies.
european cohesion policy has allowed and is allowing synergies to be created with research and innovation policies and, at the same time, has led to a greater emphasis on the role of the territorial dimension. i believe that the regions should pursue smart and green specialisation, define a set of innovative priorities for themselves, based on the union's objectives and their needs, and focus community resources on these identified priorities. they should also promote successful models in the knowledge triangle, in relations between enterprises, research centres, universities and public authorities, especially those achieved through public-private partnerships. i also believe that the exchange of knowledge within regional groupings can also be facilitated by the structural funds, because european policies are coherently geared towards sustainable development with tangible results at regional level. all these elements are the concrete link to achieving territorial cohesion within the european union.
i congratulate the rapporteurs today, and in particular mr van nistelrooij, on the excellent report they have presented. research and development will be the solutions to be considered in the future to successfully respond to the major challenges we face, whether it is the acute phenomenon of the economic crisis or the achievement of the long-term objectives of strategy 2020. under the impetus of cohesion policy, which aims to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship and develop a knowledge-based economy, research and development must take on two dimensions. in the top-down approach, research and innovation will be the main themes to identify solutions to overcome the problems we face and for sustainable growth and development. it is equally important that innovation should come down from the laboratories and research centres to a level as close as possible to the needs of the european citizen. we need to encourage local and regional economies to increase their capacity to innovate, to identify the most effective solutions in the bottom-up approach, and thus to exploit regional and local potential.
today the union is facing an economic, financial and social crisis. the deindustrialization policy pursued in recent years has led to the loss of millions of jobs, the relocation of european industry to third countries, an unemployment rate of 10% and even 20% among young people, endangering the union's competitiveness. i believe that the union must invest heavily in transport and energy infrastructure, agriculture, health, education and research and, above all, in sustainable economic development. the development of industrial production and, by implication, jobs in the union requires investment in modernising european enterprises to produce more environmentally friendly products. over the next ten years, energy efficiency must be at the top of our agenda. the union's population is also ageing, the birth rate is falling and high unemployment is affecting the sustainability of pension systems. i believe that the time has come for the union to defend its fundamental principles and values, and the greatest value of the union is the 500 million european citizens.
in writing. the principles of the eu 2020 strategy are essential to increasing the competitiveness of the european economy. structural reforms are the key to overcoming the crisis we are in. the solutions so far to the crisis do not address the causes that brought us to this situation. the causes of the crisis can only be eliminated through structural reforms. we need to pay greater attention to the innovation capacity of our economies, because this will be the key to the eu's competitiveness in the period ahead. we need a coordinated use of funds for innovation and regional development. innovation must be a component of regional development. innovation was an objective of the lisbon strategy, but unfortunately it has remained a principle on paper. member states made extremely uneven progress and the overall target was not met. that is why i call on all member states to show responsibility and to respect the commitments they have made. the commission should also play a more active role in coordinating the implementation of this strategy, in order to avoid a disastrous failure like that of the lisbon strategy.
unfortunately, the curriculum places too much emphasis on the theoretical side, and students face problems when entering the job market. their education must be more in the perspective of practice and the real problems encountered in the economic environment. that is why i believe that there is a need to strengthen the links between academia and business. in addition, more openness of universities to the business environment is needed to better adapt university education to the requirements of the labour market. this will enable students to develop the skills and competences required by employers. a number of member states, such as france, germany, italy, the united kingdom and spain, have developed partnerships between universities and business for several years. in romania, a project funded by the european union was implemented last year, whereby twenty faculties benefited from new study programmes adapted to the current requirements of the labour market. one of the important benefits of the project is the reduction of unemployment by increasing the quality of education and reducing the number of graduates with higher education who are unable to adapt to the labour market. such partnerships should not be limited to the level of one member state. in this context, i support the promotion and expansion of the erasmus for young entrepreneurs and erasmus for apprentices programmes.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr pál schmitt on his coherent and relevant report on the current situation in higher education. we have a big problem, and that is that, at the moment, in all 27 member states of the european union, we are producing unemployed people, not young people who are perfectly suited to the labour market. there is a huge gap between what a young person learns in school and what employers demand in the job market. it is an even bigger problem because we are in an economic crisis, in a financial crisis, and the jobs crisis is also evident. we are talking about many years in which the european union has been a player on the world market with an economy based mainly on knowledge and innovation. if we really want to have a knowledge and innovation economy, we need to go beyond the discussion stage and support more investment and public-private partnerships and encourage partnerships between universities and business so that what is discovered and the results of scientific research in universities can be exploited in the real economy. i was with seán kelly in santiago de compostela, and i visited the university there, and i can tell you that i saw a very clear model of financing for start-ups, for small businesses, for student-run businesses, where the university gives out loans without collateral to students. what students develop at the university is immediately applicable to the local economy. it is a model that we must promote and multiply at union level.
at a time when we need new tools to boost economic growth, i believe it is important to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises have easier access to the research and development sector. many of these companies suffer from difficult access to finance, so they cannot afford to design and develop new products or redesign existing ones, and face a loss of competitiveness. it would be desirable for universities, especially those funded by public funds, to be more open to the needs of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. reducing red tape while increasing public funding for research and development programmes that can generate technologies or products that can be transferred to smes could facilitate access to funding for these programmes from the structural funds. universities can also contribute to the training of sme staff as part of the lifelong learning process. the launch of a single european network of business and innovation centres is encouraging. i want to congratulate the reporter.
we have to ask ourselves where we want to go in terms of education and research. there's a lot of talk about the knowledge society, but i wonder if this concept has become just a media-successful catchphrase. i think there's too little talk about competence in this context and too much about the accumulation of knowledge. if you survey students, you'll find that essay writing has become a practice based on some formulas for filling the space required by teachers. they're the ones who will have to engage in an economic environment where the recipes for success are no longer guaranteed. i believe that not only the business environment will be profoundly restructured as a result of the economic and financial crisis, but also universities, which will have to go through transformations to adapt to an ever-changing environment that requires the acquisition of skills, not just knowledge.
i congratulate mr pál schmitt twice: on his new post, but also on the well-structured and complex report which will certainly help to make relations between the business and academic worlds in europe more efficient. since all the strategies we have adopted proclaim the need for well-trained citizens whose skills are in line with the requirements of the labour market, i welcome a concrete approach that ensures a better interconnection between the two areas. i believe that a change of mindset is needed at community level, a business environment that contributes to the adaptation of the university curriculum, just as on the american continent, by initiating and financing specific courses. in this way, students will be familiar with the rigours of entrepreneurship and the european higher education area can become more attractive globally. the practical effect must be to provide added value to society, to transfer knowledge and the results of collaboration between universities and businesses, generating economic growth and, by implication, a better life for our citizens.
i agree with the rapporteur in part. i want to tell you that to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, knowledge and innovation are needed, and we are not talking about buying knowledge, we are talking about investing in an education system adapted to the needs of the market. at present, universities in the european union offer less attractive conditions to researchers and students than schools in the united states, and one of the main reasons is that money is lacking. as european commission president josé manuel barroso has pointed out, europeans are fighting to attract the best footballers, but they are losing their researchers to the americans. the modernisation of european universities is therefore imperative if they are to play a decisive role in society and in the knowledge and innovation-based economy. one solution to the complaints of employers that university education fails to take account of labour market requirements and does not prepare students for the current context is to provide opportunities for traineeships in smes in university programmes.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as rapporteur on investments in energy infrastructure and shadow rapporteur on security of gas supply, i am very sensitive to issues of energy security. i think europe has a key role to play in this field. as a romanian mep, i have even more interest in this particular issue of the kozloduy nuclear plant. being on the border of my country, it has long been a matter of preoccupation in romania for obvious environmental reasons. the kozloduy power plant is situated four kilometres from the river danube and 150 kilometres from bucharest. according to international experts, the plant does not have any protective cover and there are major risks of radioactive leakages into the soil and the water table. i believe europe has a responsibility to help and facilitate its decommissioning, and we have to ensure that sufficient funding is made available to this project, as this is crucial to keep safety up to high standards, to ensure the necessary expertise and implement international best practices. decommissioning and dismantling should be done according to very strict rules and standards, otherwise it could pose a security threat to the whole region. this is why i fully support this proposal and our commitment to allocate an additional eur 300 million to this project. let me also remind you that the european parliament took a strong stance a few months ago on this dossier, allocating the first eur 75 million in the 2010 budget. nevertheless, i think we should be intransigent regarding transparency in the use of european funds. so far the commission has been quite dissatisfied with the information on decommissioning received from bulgaria. the monitoring of the funds needs to be strict. this is why i believe that the european commission should first perform a specific evaluation to assess the strengths and weaknesses of past projects in order to improve funds programming together with the ebrd for the next funding period 2010-2013. we have tabled several amendments requiring the bulgarian authorities to present a proper national strategy outlining long-term objectives in the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors as a prerequisite to the eur 120 million envelope. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, what can i say? are we all nuts? or can anyone else see any reason in it? i think a lot of people have decided to do it one way, and we should follow, and we all support the view that it should be done thus. no further comment.
i would like to thank the commission because, although we are all concerned about the crisis now, the commission is still concerned about the other problems and i think bulgaria is fully entitled to receive the money that was promised for the dismantling of this nuclear power station. i am a supporter of electricity produced by nuclear power stations and i do not believe that europe will be able to achieve its clean energy targets without the construction of nuclear power stations. but i strongly believe that each country has the right to build nuclear power plants, but we in the european union believe that we have a collective responsibility, a solidarity towards the technologies that are chosen in the construction of these nuclear power plants. i believe that the european commission will have to be very strict in its assessment of these new nuclear power plant projects.
how the issue of the closure and subsequent decommissioning of the kozloduy nuclear power plant is resolved is not only relevant to how the bulgarian side resolves this issue, but as stated here, the decommissioning process also concerns the neighbouring states and may set a precedent for other countries with similar units approaching the maximum period of operation. i do not hide the fact that, as has been said, the kozloduy plant has always been a cause for concern for the citizens of romania, especially after the chernobyl accident. it would therefore be important that the decommissioning process be accompanied by a public information campaign for all interested parties who have a right to know the stages of the decommissioning process, the timing and potential risks of each stage, how fissile material and hazardous waste are secured, and the ecological reconstruction of the kozloduy area. i would stress the importance we must attach to the management of radioactive waste. the funds allocated to bulgaria for this purpose must therefore be provided in a timely manner and without any delay. i say this because, although it seems sufficient now, these costs are only estimates, there is no precedent for the scale of the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant in bulgaria. i hope that with sufficient funding and careful planning, under the supervision of all the relevant bodies, the decommissioning process will be an example of the good use of european funds.
in writing. the eu is 53% dependent on energy imports. to reduce energy dependency, some member states have adopted ambitious strategies for the use of nuclear energy and energy from renewable sources. in the eu, nuclear energy accounts for 28% of total energy consumed and in belgium, france, lithuania, slovakia and sweden it is the most important source of energy. nuclear power generation does not generate carbon dioxide emissions and in member states using nuclear energy, the price per household monthly energy bill is lower. however, the eu is certainly very demanding in the operation of nuclear power plants and in the management of radioactive waste. strong measures and high standards for the safety of nuclear installations, as well as good cooperation between local, regional, national and european authorities, provide the basis for the safe use of nuclear energy in the eu. the commission's proposed regulation ensures fair treatment of bulgaria by granting financial assistance until 2013 for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants, measures laid down in the accession treaties. nuclear decommissioning requires long-term financial planning, continuing until the site has been fully recovered and all radioactive waste and spent fuel has been safely managed.
i would like to say that, almost two years after the launch of the union for the mediterranean, it is time to take stock of this new federal project and also to reflect on the prospects for development. in this respect, i think that mr peillon's report is welcome and i would like to congratulate the author, as do my colleagues. in the run-up to the barcelona summit in june, i think it is very important to reaffirm parliament's commitment to the success of this project in a region which, as we all know, is situated at the crossroads of three continents and whose importance for europe, in geostrategic and cultural terms, is obvious. i was somewhat concerned by mr. baudis' scepticism about the possibility of this summit being postponed. i hope that it will not come to that and that we will use all our institutional resources to ensure that this summit is not only an opportunity for analysis but also an institutional success, because the union for the mediterranean must overcome political blockages and institutional difficulties, moving forward in the implementation of the six strategic projects that constitute the very essence of the institution. the union for the mediterranean's sustainability and credibility depend on its ability to function, and this requires not only adequate funding for the implementation of projects and the functioning of the secretariat, but also, i believe, greater involvement of civil society and the parliamentary, national and apem components in order to ensure the democratic legitimacy of the union for the mediterranean.
in writing. the union for the mediterranean (ufm), together with the eastern partnership, are two cooperation initiatives designed to strengthen the european union's neighbourhood policy. i believe that the european parliament must follow closely the developments in these initiatives, especially at this time when the geopolitical and economic balances of the planet are being redefined. this initiative will contribute to the development of a climate of trust appropriate to the achievement of common objectives, whether economic, cultural, educational or regional security objectives. i would like to stress that real progress in solid sectoral cooperation will only be achieved through large-scale projects and dialogue at all levels. in addition to the six strategic investment sectors that have been established, i believe that new projects need to be introduced in areas such as food, agriculture and culture.
on behalf of the alde group. as the alternative rapporteur of the liberal group, i believe that this report is a significant starting point in a coherent approach to the caucasus area and a specific quality addition to future reports we will have, for which i congratulate mr kirilov and believe that the work of all political groups has succeeded in creating an absolutely coherent approach to the area. i believe that 2010 can be a window of opportunity for both the european union and the countries of the region, because for the three significant conflict files, i mean abkhazia and ossetia, nagorno-karabakh and the dispute between turkey and armenia, through a more active involvement of european diplomacy significant steps forward can be made. the conclusion of this report, which highlights a fact that is essential to our energy security, is that more involvement from us, from the european union, is needed to normalize the security situation in the area. i believe that one way forward is to extend the trade partnership, but at the same time to make significant efforts by the union to democratize and stabilise the area, because in this area the influence of a totalitarian temptation is still significant and we have democratic deficits. we need to create important and sustained policies and projects so that what is significant for the area, namely a governance deficit, a propagation of conflicting mindsets and not least corruption, is eliminated, but for this we need a democratic will of ours and a democratic will of the governments in the area. the report mentions all these issues that i have spoken about, many others, which are important for the approach of the european union and i refer to individual rights and freedoms and i think that for the european union and for the member states the consideration of a strategic partnership is vital.
mr president, i believe that democratisation, good governance, the rule of law and respect for human rights are the cornerstones on which our future relations with armenia, azerbaijan and georgia have to be built. cross-border cooperation at regional level in the south caucasus will also increase this region’s potential cooperation with the european union. there are several very important dimensions to our economic cooperation. one of them being energy cooperation and security, especially in the context of valuable projects supported by the european commission – such as the nabucco pipeline project. the caspian sea and the black sea regions are vital for european energy security and the eu strategy for the south caucasus rightly recognises those elements. i would like to highlight very briefly three very specific elements. one of them is the involvement of local authorities in cross-border cooperation, because we need strong regional cooperation in the south caucasus; then the issue of the accession of azerbaijan to the wto. i believe that the commission is to give azerbaijan the technical assistance and all kinds of help needed to accomplish this accession. the third and last point is the technical-assistance mechanism that we could probably provide in order to strengthen the banking system and the financial system in the south caucasus states. this would give the business environment and investors a very good prospect.
mr president, the report by mr kirilov speaks about the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus. indeed i believe a strategy is needed, but a strategy needs goals and goals pre-suppose a clear geopolitical identity. perhaps we have to work on our geopolitical identity to define it better. what are our goals in the south caucasus? in a nutshell, stability, openness in the region and interoperability, legislative, democratic, political and so on. one has to recognise the specificity of the region within the eastern partnership and approach that specificity as such. one has also to recognise the specificity of each country within the region and to address it properly. we have to acknowledge and assess the role of turkey in the region and use our negotiations with turkey as a frame for developing an eu-turkey partnership in addressing the local and regional challenges. as has been said already, turkey, i am sure, could be very instrumental from this point of view. we must also acknowledge that the region is part of our common neighbourhood with russia, and we have to try to find ways of promoting common policies in that common neighbourhood. the security issues for sure, and perhaps some issues related to energy, could be dealt with in a trilateral format. this would perhaps help us to promote solutions for the local, so-called ‘frozen’ conflicts. in this respect, we have to accept that those conflicts are only parts of a coherent, broader and more complex problem with a bigger, global relevance. therefore, a package deal should perhaps be considered. likewise, i think we have to get rid of some ambiguities and understand that the principles of self-determination and territorial integrity cannot always be applied together. finally, i think that we have to consider a conference on security and cooperation in the south caucasus with a view to developing a stability pact for that region.
given the importance of the geopolitical situation of armenia, georgia and azerbaijan in relation to the european union, turkey as a candidate country to the european union, russia and iran, the development of a european union strategy for the south caucasus focused on promoting economic growth, political stability and respect for human rights is a necessity. trade is one of the key instruments available to the union to achieve these objectives. free trade agreements with these countries would boost foreign investment, create new jobs and stimulate economic growth in the region. ensuring energy security is a common concern of the european union and the south caucasus region. cooperation in the field of energy should be stepped up, in particular through the early completion of the nabucco project and union support for energy projects promoting energy efficiency and the development of alternative energy sources in the south caucasus.
mr president, today we are debating a very important and well-drafted report on an important area close to the eu, the south caucasus. the area motivates perfectly the general recommendations of the eu security strategy. it is strategically located; it allows for the transport of caspian oil and gas towards the eu; and it has its own, significant reserves. that requires our total attention and determination to act. however, precisely because it is strategically and energetically relevant, the area is fiercely contested by foreign powers exploiting its internal divisions and conflicts, be they still ‘frozen’ or ‘defrosting’. if the eu is interested in making full use of the potential of the south caucasus, then it must act together, rather than individually, and be more resolute in its actions, even if that involves making others less happy. for that we need a strategy.
i would also like to congratulate mr kirilov and thank him for his cooperation in the preparation of the report. i want to emphasize two points. the first is the democratic question. bernd posselt said earlier that the countries in this region must cooperate. these countries can cooperate if azerbaijan, georgia and armenia are rule of law, if they are predictable and plural. if that happens, the union will have something to gain. the second idea is, of course, the energy issue. i would like to emphasize the role of georgia and azerbaijan as transit countries for energy resources and for diversifying sources of energy supply. i would like to say, however, that it is good that armenia is associated with these projects as well as with those relating to transport. the key word here is transparency.
in writing. by adopting this report, the european parliament reaffirms the particular importance of the south caucasus for the european union and the need to develop a strategy for this region. the three south caucasus countries - georgia, armenia and azerbaijan - are part of both the black sea synergy and the eastern partnership. we therefore have the framework and the tools to allow for a more active involvement of the european union in the region. the european commission must come up with concrete initiatives for cooperation in areas such as energy security, transport, economic development and environmental protection. the south caucasus region is of particular importance for the southern corridor and therefore for the energy security of the whole of europe. romania is involved in concrete projects for the development of the southern corridor. to this end, representatives of my country, georgia and azerbaijan signed the agri agreement. it provides for the construction of two liquefied natural gas terminals in two black sea ports, one in georgia and the other in romania, at constanța. i want to emphasize that we cannot ignore the frozen conflicts in the area because they can degenerate, which would lead to the destabilization of the region.
in writing. − we all know that the europe 2020 strategy was launched to help us get out of the current economic crisis and prepare the eu economy for the new decade. i therefore believe that the eu 2020 strategy must set realistic targets for achieving a green, social and knowledge-based market economy and sustainable development by 2020, as well as for job creation in agriculture and the environment, as the cornerstone of the eu 2020 strategy must be the european single market, addressing the challenges of economic growth and consumer protection.
in writing. - we voted for the schmitt report to encourage collaboration between universities and companies. today, universities need to work more closely with business to respond adequately to the needs of the labour market, especially in a globalised economy. in this respect, dialogue and cooperation between universities and enterprises should be based on reciprocity, trust and respect. this could be achieved by introducing a system of knowledge vouchers, such as that currently used in several member states, which would allow smes in particular to enhance their research capacity without compromising the independence, autonomy and public character of universities. both universities and businesses can benefit from the joint development of multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and entrepreneurial skills, and from the flexible adaptation of fields of study, profiles and specialisations to the needs of the economy, including small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the dialogue between universities and business: a new partnership for the modernisation of european universities. the union needs closer links and partnerships between universities and the business sector for the development of the knowledge-based society, applied research and better integration of graduates into the labour market. unfortunately, there is an increasing discrepancy between the skills of graduates and the qualifications required by the labour market. i encourage the commission and the member states to develop medium and long-term forecasts of the skills needed to link the education programme with economic development. i also draw attention to the need to increase employment, a priority for the union, especially in this period of recession. we encourage the commission to promote, through the means and instruments at its disposal, the development of an entrepreneurial culture by simplifying procedures and reducing red tape in order to stimulate exchanges between universities and businesses. finally, i would stress the importance of lifelong learning, particularly through distance learning, which is particularly adapted to new technologies and useful, in particular, for people over 45, who are more vulnerable and exposed to social exclusion.
in writing. − in accordance with its commitments under the eu accession treaty, bulgaria is required to close units 1-4 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant (cnk), and the eu has provided financial assistance until 2009. i voted in favour of this report to support bulgaria's drive to supplement its funding with eur 300 million by 2013 to complete the decommissioning of the ncc, the remediation of the site, the sustainable management of all waste generated in conditions that are safe for health and the environment. i also support the commission's request to monitor and control the implementation of all projects to be carried out under this grant: research/innovation to introduce renewable energy technologies to meet the need for an additional 18 000 kt of co2 equivalent reduction resulting from decommissioning. special attention must be paid to the re-skilling of the workforce, in order to avoid further unemployment, and to the development of local communities, especially in this period of crisis. all these processes must be carried out in full transparency to the citizens, subject to compliance with the provisions of all multilateral environmental agreements to which bulgaria is a party (e.g. aarhus, espoo, etc.).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because research, development and innovation are essential elements that can help the european union to emerge faster and stronger from the current economic crisis and, at the same time, to achieve the proposed economic development objectives. this requires a consistent, well-targeted and appropriately funded policy. i think, however, that account should be taken of the different social and economic characteristics of the regions. acceptance of limits and setting of targets in the light of the real situation and the needs identified through consultation with all local, national and regional actors is required.
in writing. − last year, the budget deficit and public debt in the euro area were 6.3% and 78.7% of gdp respectively, well above the level set by the stability and growth pact. the stability and growth pact has proven its limitations in the context of the crisis, as it is not a sufficient instrument for harmonising national economies. i therefore support both a revision of the pact and the search for alternative mechanisms to restore convergence of economies within the union, such as a european public rating agency and closer coordination of budgetary and monetary policies in the member states. so i think the decision taken last week by the european central bank to buy bonds issued by euro area governments is a positive one. i have decided to vote against the final report on the long-term sustainability of public finances because these elements which i consider to be fundamental to ensuring the stability of the european single market and to maintaining a modern welfare state in europe have been removed from the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the need for a european union strategy for the south caucasus. the south caucasus is of strategic importance to the european union. at the same time, the european union can and must help this region, which is struggling to develop economically and commercially. through trade policy we can promote respect for human rights, energy security, democracy and good governance. as the virtual rapporteur of my political group for this resolution, i am calling for the conclusion of free trade agreements with georgia, armenia and azerbaijan. in my view, these will help the economic development of the region by increasing investment and creating new jobs, which will ensure a reduction in poverty.
in writing. - i voted against amendment no 7 because it deleted an essential part of the text of the report, namely the part in which the european parliament calls on russia to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the republic of georgia and the inviolability of its internationally recognised borders and condemns the recognition by the russian federation of the independence of the georgian breakaway regions of south ossetia and abkhazia as contrary to international law. to state this position firmly is to help avoid setting a precedent in this respect in the future.
there are two indisputable facts when we look at the situation in pakistan. the first is that pakistan is a key strategic player in the fight against terrorism. we must do everything we can to ensure that the security of european citizens is not jeopardised. the second is that pakistan has a different attitude towards religious and ethnic minorities than it would have in line with the values that europe and advanced liberal democracies hold. europe cannot remain silent when other states commit serious human rights abuses, and we must therefore raise our concerns, even when it comes to our strategic partners. the union can act credibly vis-à-vis third countries by resolving the problems of religious and national minorities in its own territory in a satisfactory manner. it must be clear to the world that one of the union's fundamental values is a high level of protection of human and minority rights, which the union considers itself primarily obliged to uphold, or should, so to speak, be obliged to uphold. this is the only way to most effectively engage our partners in these achievements or the stops on the way to them.
after nearly nine years of military dictatorship, the 2008 elections in pakistan marked the beginning of a process of democratization in the country. unfortunately, ms. benazir bhutto was assassinated a few weeks before the election. these were won by the pakistan people's party, which she led. although minorities in pakistan face a number of problems, under the current government, a number of positive measures have been initiated. intercultural dialogue was promoted, a 5% quota for minorities in the federal administration was established and some muslim legal holidays were recognized. the pakistani government's commitment to grant minority seats in the senate is commendable. finally, i would like to emphasize the special importance that pakistan has in the fight against terrorism and extremism.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is closely monitoring the situation of religious minorities in pakistan and the constitution of pakistan recognises freedom of religion and provides for the state to safeguard the rights of minorities. pakistan has made progress in recent times with the adoption of constitutional amendments that strengthen the role of elected assemblies in pakistan and institutional progress in the field of human rights, in particular with the establishment of a ministry of human rights and a ministry of minorities. in addition, an independent national human rights commission is being set up. pakistan has also ratified the international covenant on civil and political rights and the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. this is a step in the right direction, provided that these instruments are implemented effectively. but pakistan must redouble its efforts to ensure better integration of religious minorities, including the christian minority, into social, economic and political structures. pakistan's international reputation has been tarnished by incidents such as last year's in gojra, when seven christians were burned alive in attacks by extremists on a church and homes, attacks on shiites and discrimination against ahmadis. as regards the rights of religious minorities, the european union has systematically used political dialogue with pakistan to raise human rights issues and has also undertaken several diplomatic approaches. since 2007, this has been supplemented by a human rights dialogue under the cooperation agreement with pakistan, which provides for such a regular dialogue on governance and human rights. in this dialogue, the european union has always insisted on respect for individual and minority rights. in the context of this human rights dialogue, the european union has also regularly raised the issue of the application of the blasphemy law with the government of pakistan. in absolute terms, it seems that the majority of the accused are muslims, but i am aware that the blasphemy law has often been applied against religious minorities and that false accusations have been made to settle personal scores or for matters of greedy gain. the last meeting of the joint committee was held on 25 march 2010, preceded the day before by a meeting of a subgroup on governance, human rights and migration. the situation of minorities in pakistan was raised. at the same time, we have not hesitated to raise the concerns of pakistanis about the situation of religious minorities here in our own europe. the european union also intends to raise these issues at the next summit with pakistan on 4 june. a large part of the pakistani population lacks access to education and basic social behaviours. through the cooperation assistance provided by the european commission, priority is given to improving access to basic education within the country's education policy and framework. i hope that in the medium term this will lead to a more tolerant attitude towards religious freedom.
in writing. – reportedly, pakistan has the harshest blasphemy laws in the world. the exercise of the rights to free expression and religion can result in imprisonment and death. section 295b and c of pakistan’s penal code criminalise derogatory remarks regarding the koran and the prophet, providing for punishments of life imprisonment, and death, respectively. section 298 punishes the deliberate wounding of religious feelings, and sections 298a, b and c penalise derogatory remarks of holy figures and places, and outlaw the religious group of ahmadis (who consider themselves muslim). freedom of religion includes the freedom to believe in any religion and the freedom not to believe in any religion. pakistan’s minister for minority affairs announced yesterday that amendments are being prepared to stop the misuse of the blasphemy laws. i believe these laws should be repealed, as any modified text will only be a legacy of the past and allow for continued violence and discrimination.
in writing. in recent years, the government of pakistan has adopted a number of measures which show a certain sensitivity to the situation of national minorities: the appointment of the federal minister for minorities in the person of shahbaz bhatti, the 5% quota for public sector employees, the commitment of a representation in the senate for religious minorities, etc. these efforts should be encouraged, but much more is needed to improve the situation of religious minorities. a crucial element, i think, is the revision of the provisions on religious offences in the so-called blasphemy law. the possibility of abusing the provisions of this law has created an atmosphere of intolerance, which has encouraged religious violence, discrimination, intimidation and persecution of religious minorities. beyond the legal aspect, it is important that the government take decisive action to prevent violence. promoting tolerance is the key to protecting religious minorities in pakistan.
the author. as we all saw, because it is at the heart of the news, thailand has been experiencing, since april, a situation of political violence that it had not known in the last decade. i would like to first of all express my solidarity with the families of the victims of street violence. i think it's a classic confrontation between freedom of speech and association on the one hand and the need for government to maintain public order on the other. events have unfolded very rapidly in the last few days and hours. relative calm seems to have returned to bangkok, although last night the capital was on fire following the intervention of government forces. let us hope that a new spiral of violence can be avoided, but to avoid it, moderation is needed, because democracy cannot be established through violence. i believe that the government will have to implement the road map it presented on may 3rd and i believe that investigating recent events and punishing those responsible is a necessary step to ensure reconciliation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the situation is all the more worrying as there are no real prospects of smoothing the internal conflict. the reprisals in the streets of the thai capital that have left dozens dead and hundreds injured cannot be accepted in any form as a solution to the existing problems. the brutal use of force and the imposition of censorship, which only allows television stations to broadcast programmes approved by the government, are violations of fundamental human rights, and the european union and the entire civilized world have a duty to condemn the use of armed force against civilians, to demand the release of those wrongfully detained, and to investigate as objectively as possible the deaths that have occurred. moreover, the loss of life only serves to harden the opposition and fuel the violence that has spread to the northeast. there is a risk that these street confrontations will degenerate into a civil war and i believe that international bodies, the un in the first place, must intervene as soon as there is time to prevent the situation from deteriorating further and to mediate the start of a necessary dialogue between power and opposition as the only democratic way to peacefully resolve the current crisis.
madam president, i condemn the use of bullets against protestors in thailand: thousands of people died; hundreds were injured. as reported by amnesty international, eyewitness accounts and video recordings show clearly that the military is firing live rounds at unarmed people who pose no threat whatsoever to the soldiers or to others. among the dead there are medical doctors and children. thai soldiers must stop firing; violence against protestors cannot lead, and will not lead, to a democratic solution. the government must be aware that crushing the protestors may clear the streets for now but will not solve the problem that brought the people onto the streets, and before anything else comes human life, so stop the firing.
on behalf of the epp group. the human rights situation in myanmar is particularly grave. this country has been ruled for decades by a military dictatorship that has violently repressed opponents of the regime. the authorities have announced that elections will be held this year for the first time since 1990. but they will be conducted in an undemocratic framework. hundreds of thousands of citizens will be denied the right to vote or stand for election and at least 25% of the parliamentarians will be military. the main opposition party led by nobel peace prize and sakharov prize laureate aung san suu kyi will not participate in the elections. i call on the european union, through the high representative, and the international community to step up their efforts to democratize myanmar and to secure the release of ms aung san suu kyi as soon as possible. she has been under house arrest since 2003 and is an important symbol of the struggle for democracy and human rights.
burma is not a democracy, even if it holds elections, because, as we know, the authorities in this country have a deep contempt for any democratic principle. it is a ruthless military dictatorship, a dictatorship which, as has been said, reserves seats in parliament for the military and which bans the entry into politics of democratically minded citizens in general. without the release of aung san suu kyi, there can be no improvement in the political atmosphere in this country. another leader of the national league for democracy said that he was unable to serve his country after spending 20 years in prison for his beliefs, simply because the burmese military forbids candidates with such convictions, which they themselves have issued. i call for a national dialogue, because only then can the society of this country be changed.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, who, in a difficult budgetary situation and in a new procedure that is still very hesitant, has managed to work well with all the groups and to take account of the different points of view. but i cannot help but draw attention to the attitude of the commission and the council to their responsibility in the budgetary procedure. it is june 2010 and the draft budget for 2011 still does not take account of the esas, does not take account of much of the new eu prerogatives after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and does not sufficiently take account of the objectives of the europe 2020 agenda. commissioner lewandowski promised us a budget focused on youth and education, but if you look at the draft budget he proposed, the lifelong learning line, the most important programme in this area, is only increased by 2%, which is the equivalent of inflation this year.
member of the commission. − madam president, the power and the importance of the mdgs come from being a collective commitment to shared development goals. they stand as a common framework to coordinate and check international development activities. they help galvanise development efforts and help deliver opportunity to millions of people around the world. despite impressive gains, however, overall progress has been uneven among the different goals, across regions and within developing countries. 2010 really is a milestone. it is necessary to consider what we got right and what went wrong, and what have been the key successes and failures since the signing of the millennium declaration. it is important to reflect on how best to approach the next phase and how to accelerate progress in areas that are lagging behind. it is also critical that progress towards meeting the mdgs is robust and sustained. strengthening country-owned institutions, policies and service-delivery systems will be essential, as will avoidance or mitigation of shocks and the promotion of broad-based economic growth. mr cashman’s excellent report responds to the issues mentioned and gives powerful guidance for the european union in preparation for the united nations high-level meeting in september and beyond. i am pleased to see a strong convergence between mr cashman’s report and the commission’s communication, a 12-point eu action plan in support of the millennium development goals. we need to respect our aid commitments of 0.7% of gni by 2015 at the latest. we need to turn aid effectiveness from a good concept into tangible reality. we need to ensure that policy coherence for development becomes a strong tool to guide eu decision-making. we need to pay special attention to countries most off-track, including those in situations of conflict and fragility. we need to pay particular attention to the mdgs that are most off-track, at the same time maintaining an integrated comprehensive approach to the mdgs. i very much agree that governance is central to the successful achievement and sustainability of the mdgs. the commitment to govern effectively is a basic condition of any pursuit of public development strategies and policy. with the delivery on other commitments we need improved predictability and effectiveness to support country-led developments that foster inclusive economic growth and increase public investments in education, health and infrastructure, enhance success to clean energy and promote low-carbon development. our aid should act as a catalyst to accelerate domestic resource mobilisation to finance mdgs. i shall also say a brief word on the discussions we had in the foreign affairs council today. i am broadly satisfied with the conclusions we have reached. there is a clear commitment to meet the 0.7% oda commitment by 2015. council adopted gender equality and women’s empowerment in the development plan of eu action for the years 2010 to 2015. also, the 12-point eu action plan on mdgs proposed by the commission is reflected rightly. the council has agreed to make a real step forward in terms of aid effectiveness, inviting concrete proposals from the commission. i believe that, whilst we should not be complacent, it represents a package that will enable us to lead by example in new york. it is by no means perfect, but provides a basis for progress. once again my congratulations on parliament’s mdgs report.
indeed, as was pointed out earlier, the economic and financial crisis we are going through is seriously affecting the objectives that member states have committed to under the millennium development goals. that is why the realism and rational approach of the author of the report, mr. cashman, is commendable. it is gratifying to note that, ten years after the establishment of the millennium development goals, some progress has been made in combating extreme poverty, hunger and hiv, although this progress is not sufficient. while identifying bottlenecks in the mdg process, the cashman report presents alternatives to stop the waste of development assistance funds through a complex but balanced combination of legislative, financial and market mechanisms. i would like to stress, first of all, the satisfaction i have had in reading the recommendation in the report to the european union to channel at least half of its aid to the least developed countries and to identify the groups in the most difficult situation in these countries, particularly with regard to the situation of women, children and people with disabilities, and to integrate more effectively the interests of vulnerable groups into its development strategies. in many areas, the situation of these groups is critical. this year, as was said in september 2010 at the un summit, we will, i hope, have a more detailed view of the situation in the field of development assistance. and the cashman report expresses a highly structured view, and it has a philosophy of sustainable development behind it.
i would like to stress, first of all, that it seems to me essential that the union should promote an ambitious action plan at the new york review conference and adopt new concrete measures as a matter of urgency to make good on our promise of solidarity with the most deprived people on the planet. the council conclusions adopted today are a step in the right direction in this respect, because, i say, europe must remain a leader in the fight against poverty and a credible partner in the global development pact, concluded by the acceptance of the millennium development goals. achieving these objectives requires, as we know, not only the search for new sources of development aid, but also the political will to make these objectives a reality. on the other hand, i believe it is time to reflect on the systematic integration of a human rights-based approach into all actions undertaken to achieve the millennium development goals. respect for human rights, promoting accountability mechanisms are very important to improve the condition of those living in poverty and ultimately to achieve the mdgs. i would also like to point out certain problematic aspects of the cashman report. for the epp group, the unilateral introduction of a tobin tax, as set out in paragraph 8, cannot be accepted, because it is difficult to reconcile with the idea of financing global public goods. the idea of debt cancellation for developing countries, as presented in paragraph 13, is also difficult to support in the context of debates on the need for developing countries to take responsibility for the development process and the achievement of the millennium development goals. finally, paragraph 42 deals with matters which concern the freedom of conscience of each of us and i do not think it is appropriate to impose on the member states what position they must take on abortion.
i would refer to paragraph 22 of the draft, which calls for the european union to eliminate agricultural export subsidies and 'other negative aspects of agricultural policy'. i think this kind of approach is risky, european agriculture cannot survive without these subsidies, especially in this period of severe economic crisis and extreme price volatility. european farmers are, however, heavily burdened by the quality and welfare requirements they must meet, putting them at a disadvantage to external competitors. i believe that any elimination of export subsidies would be a mistake with grave consequences and i ask my colleagues to vote against this point.
the reporter. − the european parliament's task is to draw up legislation to improve the situation, to bring added value to the area. the compromise we are discussing today i believe meets those conditions. it was reached after a great deal of discussion, sometimes unfortunately due to pressure from some of the actors involved in this regulation. the council made a positive contribution by introducing the annex containing the first nine corridors. this initiative is speeding up the implementation of the regulation, even though the deadlines of three and five years required by the member states are, in some cases, i believe, excessive. corridors shall be established on the basis of criteria, the most important of which shall be economic efficiency. each corridor will be managed by an executive board and a management board. they will coordinate the implementation of the investments, the development of the timetable, the development of the terminals, the standardization of the regulations. the timetable will be further developed in accordance with directive 2001/14/ec. a single capacity allocation counter shall be set up within the already approved schedule. it is a great step forward both for transparency and for the efficiency of the transport companies. there's no priority for the cargo traffic. passenger traffic will not be disrupted. on the contrary, it may have advantages, due to the coordination of the decision at the corridor level. in the event of a traffic disturbance, the rules decided at corridor level will be applied in such a way that the recovery period is minimal. i consider the council's acceptance of the opening of the corridors to all interested beneficiaries to be another great achievement of this regulation. there is also the possibility that member states, on the basis of serious reasons, do not participate in the creation of a corridor. ladies and gentlemen, the volcanic ash crisis has shown that there is no coordination of rail traffic at european level. companies have missed an important opportunity to demonstrate that rail traffic can be an alternative to air traffic. e implementation stage of the first railway package makes it very clear that there is no genuine internal market in this sector. this regulation is a step forward in making rail freight transport more efficient. it is left to the member states to finance the development of railway infrastructure. i'm confident that the market's needs will demonstrate the usefulness of these investments. in the context of the current crisis and the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, it is clear that the shift from road to rail freight transport is a positive factor that needs to be taken seriously. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mr liberadzki, mrs bilbao, mr eppink, mr cramer, the spanish presidency, in particular mr jesús izarzugaza, and the staff of the committee on transport. i also want to thank mr mathieu grosch for his support.
in recent years, the commission has focused on three main areas for the development of rail transport: opening up competition, improving the interoperability and safety of national rail networks and developing rail transport infrastructure. however, rail freight transport in the european union represents only 18% of total domestic freight transport. in order to improve the efficiency of rail freight transport compared to other modes of transport, the union needs to define and ensure the most efficient operation of rail freight corridors. they must be designed to ensure the internal continuity of each corridor by providing the necessary interconnections between different existing railway infrastructures and by allocating the necessary capacity along the entire corridor route. the creation of such a corridor should ensure better interconnections with the railway infrastructure of neighbouring countries. i consider it essential that infrastructure managers participating in the freight corridor use interoperable it applications to handle international route requests and manage international traffic within the corridor.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me thank parliament for the work which has been done, and let me also say that the conclusions which have been presented by the rapporteur will send a very clear message to the member states and to the stakeholders, because we all know that freight corridors are necessary for the revitalisation and development of rail freight. and we also know that their implementation has to be coordinated and coherent at european level. we see active participation of all the rail actors. in the light of this debate, let me insist once again on two issues. the first: the one-stop shop is not a supranational body but an operational tool to make the path allocation process more efficient. second, this regulation can be implemented in full respect of the need for capacity of other types of transport, in particular passenger transport. the commission thinks it will be very good for europe if this proposal could be voted strongly tomorrow.
the reporter. - the compromise is supported by at least four political groups. it is also supported by the commission and there will be a statement on this tomorrow. the compromise is supported by the european associations of transport operators and infrastructure managers. we have one amendment, tabled under pressure from one actor in the rail freight market, which, in my view, plays a double game: the local press is talking about disrupting passenger transport, and here the amendment actually refers to the elimination of the single ticket office, which brings transparency and ensures fair competition. the adoption of this amendment leads to the conciliation procedure and deprives the text of the regulation of added value. without this one-stop shop, this regulation becomes useless, it makes too few changes to the current situation. i would like to say something to you: what has been said here, that the one-stop shop does the capacity allocation, is not true, because the capacity allocation is done in accordance with directive 2001/14/ec, just as it is done today and infrastructure managers decide on the freight train route and on the reserve for ad hoc requests, and the one-stop shop does this allocation within these decisions, already taken by the infrastructure managers. so what someone else is saying, i'm sorry, is false. the current compromise was reached after difficult negotiations. the current text contains exactly what freight transport needs: traffic coordination, investment, management, uniform rules in the event of disruption, easy access to the open market for applicants. the conciliation cannot bring more than we have now, on the contrary, it can weaken the content of the regulation and make it useless. it would seem bizarre to me that one company could win a case before the council, the european parliament and the european commission. my recommendation, and of course my request, is that this compromise be voted on as it stands.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, that is right. procedural safeguards represent a top priority in the justice area for the coming years because we need those minimum standards for the rights of the defendants in criminal proceedings. they are indispensable to promote real mutual trust between the judicial authorities of different member states. without this trust, mutual recognition will never work properly. judges and prosecutors must be confident that, no matter where the proceedings take place in the union, a common core of basic rights will be upheld. citizens must be sure that minimum standards for procedural rights will enforce their trust in our justice system and also in the eu as an area of freedom and security and justice. that is why i warmly welcome the agreement reached by the two co-legislators. i would like to give specific thanks to the rapporteur, baroness ludford, and the whole libe committee for their excellent work on this file. as commissioner, i am pleased that many of the compromise solutions take inspiration from our march 2010 proposal. the proposal was meant to reach what parliament has now reached, namely to ensure high standards for defendants and to avoid any risk of falling below the european convention on human rights acquis. the directive, as it is now on the table, will increase the minimum standards. consistent provision of interpretation throughout criminal proceedings and translation of essential documents will simply result in the right to a fair trial being upheld in a more systematic and streamlined way. i fully agree with the rapporteur that cheap justice is no justice and leads to more costs in the end as well as to a lack of trust from both judges and citizens. i am also very glad that it was possible to have a very swift adoption of this directive. this is the first step on the road map which indicates that all institutions are living up to the pledge they made to treat this file as a matter of priority. there is only one element with which i have to disagree, and that is the request by some member states to extend the implementation period to 36 months. the commission considers that three years is excessively long because none of the member states submitted any evidence that the implementation of this piece of legislation would be very difficult. in addition, the member states also knew that this legislation would be adopted and have already known this for several years. having said that, in a spirit of compromise, i will accept the solution. what i say now is very important for the future. on the understanding that this will not set a precedent for future road map measures – and i would like to underline this three times – i will say ‘yes’ this time but not again. i would also like to emphasise that the commission will deploy all the necessary resources at its disposal to enforce the member states’ obligations concerning the timely and correct implementation of the decision. this is in accordance with the lisbon treaty and with the stockholm programme. as you know, the commission is already working on the subsequent road map measures. i will very shortly be putting forward a proposal on the right to information – the letter of rights. this will be presented in the coming week, so what we have initiated today will be work in progress.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs ludford, on all her work and thanking her for the way she has worked with the alternate rapporteurs. the existence of common standards is an essential condition for mutual trust in the legal systems of the member states. the right to a fair trial of suspects or accused persons is a fundamental right, enshrined in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, in the absence of adequate standards of defence, there is a risk of creating imbalances between the means available to the prosecution and the degree of protection of the rights of suspects or accused persons. efforts to strengthen procedural rights in the european union have been long-standing. the first steps were taken in november 2000 when the council, in accordance with the tampere conclusions, adopted a programme of measures to implement the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters. they followed the commission's proposal for a framework decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings in 2004, which failed to reach agreement and negotiations were abandoned in june 2007; the swedish presidency's roadmap of july 2009, which proposed a gradual approach to procedural rights; the commission's proposal of july 2009 and december 2010, respectively, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the change of legal framework; and finally the initiative of the 13 member states. here we are, after almost seven years, about to adopt the first step in the procedural rights roadmap: the directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. i would like to express my satisfaction with the result of the interinstitutional negotiations, the text we are going to vote on wednesday, which brings important improvements to the member states' proposal. i hope that the three-year implementation period will not set a precedent for subsequent measures under the roadmap and that member states will make every effort to implement all the provisions of the directive as quickly, correctly, consistently and fairly as possible.
when the economic crisis in the european union began, the baltic states were among the worst affected. the baltic tigers were becoming, after a few years of economic boom, the sick men of europe. but now, in record time, estonia is preparing to join the eurozone. but its accession is to strengthen the euro area at a critical moment. estonia's ambition to adopt the single currency is commendable, despite the crisis which did not escape it, but which it has managed to cope with with prompt austerity measures and fiscal discipline. although hard hit by the crisis, the baltic countries have had the advantage of low public debt, which has provided them with a greater degree of flexibility for external borrowing. this is noteworthy given that estonia's debt-to-gdp ratio is 7.2%, well below the 60% reference value. i think it is time to learn from the lessons of the european crisis and the determination of estonia and to find a middle ground between ambition and prudence. however, in this process we cannot afford to neglect the social component of the changeover. the experience of the previous accession states indicates major risks to price increases, so i hope that the estonian authorities will be able to apply balanced fiscal policies so that citizens are not forced to make major sacrifices. in this connection, my colleague mr scicluna draws attention to the risk of inflation. last but not least, estonia's move to the euro has a symbolic dimension, as it sets an example for the eastern european countries, whose momentum and real chances of meeting the deadline for adopting the euro have been diminished by the crisis.
i would first like to congratulate estonia on its particular efforts to meet the convergence criteria by adopting prudent policies. it will thus become the 17th country to adopt the euro. at a difficult time for the european economy, with speculation growing about the exit of some member states from the euro area, estonia is showing that it is ready to move to the single currency. this is also a strong signal for a possible eastward enlargement of the euro area. the other eight countries covered by the 2010 convergence report, including romania, have made uneven progress towards adopting the single currency and do not yet meet all the criteria for joining the euro area. finally, i would like to say that any member state should only adopt the euro when it is fully ready.
in romania and many other eu countries, so-called 'dream shops' have sprung up, selling chemically processed substances as substitutes for drugs. the romanian government has issued an emergency ordinance banning dozens of such substances. however, because of the way these shops operate, the threat of lethal drugs has not been contained and will not be stopped without a general reaction from the european institutions and all the governments of the member states. many have died, and the health of thousands is in jeopardy. numerous ngos in romania warn that there are a huge number of chemically processed substances that can produce such effects and their gradual ban cannot be a realistic solution to combat the problem. romania is a lucky case, because it has seen the rise of this phenomenon in good time, but it could be just as alive in other european countries. that is why i believe that the institutions of the european union must take the lead in ensuring that we have a continuous fight not only against drugs but also against lethal drug surrogates.
in romania, the series of abusive measures that the right-wing power manifests with the attack on the right to free expression continues. a bill on the organization and operation of public radio and television is being discussed in the national parliament. the proposal from the government is a direct attack on freedom of expression in romania and seriously violates both the constitution, minority rights, and international norms in the field. european and romanian organizations have already brought criticism. all media regulations in europe provide for the respect of the right to freedom of expression and information guaranteed by article 10 of the european convention on human rights. i call on the european commission and the romanian authorities to find a fair and democratic solution to a mechanism that will allow public radio and television to operate on equal, ethical and european principles.
a few weeks ago, a hidden camera film went around the world. the former daughter-in-law of britain's queen, the duchess of york, sarah ferguson, demanded a bribe of £500,000 to intervene, in a heartbeat, alongside her ex-husband, prince andrew, to solve a problem. her later apologies for being drunk failed to mislead anyone, for that is her natural state. what a marvel of technology this hidden chamber is! we should erect a monument to him in every country. without it, we would never have known the unseen side of things, the secret behavior of so many public figures. two hundred years ago, napoleon took from the desk of frederick the great at the castle of sans-souci, a silver alarm clock which, when he made his will on the island of st helena, he bequeathed to a close relative. it was a war-torn place. now, the spoils of war are called commission, attention, sponsorship. if eastern europe is close to bankruptcy, it is not only because of the corruption in our countries, but also because of the corruption and blackmail of certain public figures and institutions in the west, especially banks. it's time to join forces to destroy the mafia, this worm so inventive... (president interrupts speaker)
according to the italian newspaper la repubblica, may 31 of this year, some insurance companies in italy are charging a so-called nationality risk premium. the consequence of this tax is that citizens from countries with high migration flows, for example romania or bulgaria, are obliged to pay higher taxes when taking out a car insurance policy. according to italian legal experts, national immigration law requires non-discriminatory access to services, regardless of the nationality of the applicant. the question i raise in parliament tonight is whether such a practice can be considered in line with european discrimination law.
over the next nine months, the commission, the member states and the european parliament will define the future ten-t core network and the interconnection nodes with the transport network of the union's neighbouring countries. the development of the ten-t system, both infrastructure and transport services, must be an important part of the eu-2020 strategy. the internal market and the economic and social cohesion of the union depend on an efficient, safe and interoperable transport infrastructure. the union needs high-speed rail infrastructure to serve all eu capitals and all major european cities, as well as modernisation of seaports and river ports. i ask the commission to increase the budget for the development of the transeuropean transport system from 11% of the budget for cohesion policy to at least 20% in the future financial perspective and to reduce the gap in the development of transport infrastructure between the centre and the south-east of the union. in order to encourage member states to invest in ten-t infrastructure, i also ask the commission to increase the co-financing rate from the ten-t budget, in particular for cross-border sections.
the european commission is preparing the green paper on pensions, through which the european executive will seek to stimulate the debate on a european pension strategy. the main lines of this strategy should aim at addressing the demographic and budgetary problems facing the member states. with the ageing population of the european union, the pressures on public finances will increase significantly in the coming years. regardless of the political situation in the member states, the main priority of such a strategy must be to guarantee a decent standard of living for those who have retired from active life. we must not forget that pensioners are a captive social group. they often no longer have the opportunity to opt for an alternative source of income, such as employment, because of their advanced age, and therefore i insist that this priority be the main objective of this document.
the year 2010 brought new floods along the danube, causing material damage to local communities and involving the use of many resources to mitigate the effects. the way in which floods affect businesses in communities along the danube is an important issue to be reflected in the eu danube strategy. the latest debates in romania, in constanta, have brought to the fore new concerns of the member states for the economic and social development of the danube. these proposals should be supported by innovative measures to reduce the material damage caused by flooding. otherwise, regions face increased losses, both in terms of existing businesses and the development potential they generate. the regions need support to respond to these challenges so that the damage caused by the danube floods is minimised.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr langen on his work on this report. derivatives are considered to be one of the causes of the financial crisis. in order to prevent further crises, the commission's proposals on the derivatives market are designed to reduce the risk these instruments pose to the european economy. restoring confidence in financial markets requires a legislative framework that leads to increased transparency and the correct assessment of risks by market participants. in the short term, an important objective is to reduce counterparty risk. this can be achieved by using clearing houses more intensively in ccps. in order to increase transparency, centralisation of transactions through a central counterparty is necessary. in this respect, ccps contribute to maintaining the integrity of the stock market.
the relaunch of the european economy requires investment in new information and communication technologies as a means of stimulating economic growth. the internet of things can be a way to address the needs of the elderly and disabled population and provide reliable care services. however, i would stress that measures are needed to ensure privacy, ease of installation and operation, and to inform customers about the services available. we call on the commission to monitor closely the implementation of the regulations already adopted at european level in this area and to present, before the end of the year, a timetable of the guidelines it intends to propose at community level to strengthen the security of the internet of things and rfid applications. the commission should also make further efforts to ensure that iot-related technologies respect user requirements, for example the option to disable traceability, as well as individual rights and freedoms.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, with great admiration for mrs badia i cutchet, i want to underline that we are on the same track and that parliament has taken an active and important role and indeed a global view – not just a local one for this area of the world – in promoting the internet of things. that is quite well worded in your report, and in particular your drawing of attention to the major developments that should have a profound impact on the daily lives of european citizens in the decades ahead. i was impressed by the other members of parliament paying their respects to mrs badia i cutchet and also underlining how important it is for european citizens. it was rightly mentioned that it is also a matter of communication, for we have to get more attention to this very important issue. so congratulations for the pioneering role in pointing out the key challenges of the internet of things. i would like to repeat that the rapporteur did a great job in emphasising the number of important public policy issues. i share her view that the european union should ensure a regulatory and a legal framework and i recently spoke in this field of the values framework that protects the european citizen and at the same time promotes public as well as private sector investments in the internet of things. for the internet of things to be developed effectively and deliver on its promise, we need on the one hand a public debate and on the other stable conditions for investment. and we certainly must avoid people feeling that the internet of things was pushed upon them. it is not a matter of an obligation; it is a matter of getting an opportunity, a challenge, so to say, and a potential impact. it is great. we need to be conscious of the decisions that we are making and at the same time we need to give researchers and businesses a perspective for medium- to long-term investments, creating a level playing field and a set of common rules. i think that was one of those challenges that parliament as well as the commission is facing. now that an agenda has been set, it is time to roll up our sleeves, so to speak, and start implementing. we have started on this, for now is indeed the time for implementation and out of the 14 lines of action laid down in our communication on the internet of things, i am happy to report that several are already on their way. a study on the environmental aspects of the radio frequency identification is going on and the institutional dialogue is well on its way. and in a longer term perspective, a first wave of eight eu-funded research projects will start this year and that will certainly create unprecedented synergies of the future. and there are some other actions like governance of the internet of things, the right to the silence of the ships, privacy, data protection, standards and security that will require a sustained commitment of time and of collective effort. and that is why i have decided to establish an expert group which will be asked to review those issues and not just to review those issues, but also others. it will be composed of representatives from civil society, industry, regulatory agencies, universities, governments. what i have in mind is that they will meet quarterly over two years and their reports on progress will of course be available to you. in conclusion, it is all about communication now and it is, indeed, implementing what we have promised the people. and just to give a short reaction to members, it is quite clear that the commission has made the statement that every european should be digital in 2013 and we give that statement the status of ‘this we believe’ or rather ‘this we will do’ and ‘this we can do’. i have the privilege to be invited to the itre committee and to the committee for culture and it is quite clear that we must communicate that this is the list to do. there is one line that is quite obvious, that every european should be digital, and that makes certain that your worry whether that could be done is put into clear wording. on the issue of protecting people’s data, protection is an important point in our digital agenda. it is about trust and security. if you are not giving trust then you cannot expect that people will use this phenomenon, so it is a circle in which we have to deal with all those aspects and then indeed give an opportunity that is a challenging one for the european citizen.
in writing. the internet of things is an information architecture consisting of a network of objects interconnected by means of radio frequency identification technology and the internet. the advantage of such innovation is that it facilitates trade in goods and services and transmits information about objects around us in real time. the main points of a regulatory framework in this area are to encourage investment to enable european companies to benefit from the added value of this innovation and to establish a governance system for the information structure, which allows for proper consumer information and respects the personal data of european citizens. i therefore believe that it is the task of the european commission to continue funding projects in the field of the internet of things under the 7th framework programme for competitiveness and innovation and to create a transparent and secure governance system for the internet of things.
in writing. internet of things technology will enable significant advances in health, transport, energy efficiency, the environment, retail and the fight against counterfeiting. the development of new iot applications will depend on the confidence of european consumers in the system. effective security is one of the essential features of any development that risks endangering personal data. the commission should make further efforts to ensure that iot-related technologies meet user requirements (in particular the option to disable traceability) and respect the rights and freedoms of natural persons. this technology should be subject to further evaluations by the european commission in the future, in particular with regard to the impact of radio waves and other means of activating identification technologies on health. the commission will have to ensure the development of a transparent system based on the principle of respect for privacy from the moment of design, which allows the explicit mention of the presence of means of identification and traceability and which guarantees to consumers and delegated authorities the possibility to verify the reliability of the data and the way the system works, and that the data will be accessible only by authorised users.
we have reached a point where the use of the internet is indispensable for both citizens and organisations. the internet, with its wide range of services and facilities, can be seen as a global public good to which everyone should have unconditional access. i am in favour of concrete european funding programmes to facilitate access to this service and develop its communications infrastructure in all regions of europe, especially in rural areas and in developing member states. this will help to bridge the digital, social and cultural gaps between europe and the rest of the world. at the same time, the european union must ensure that the existence and security of its internet infrastructure is well protected against cyberattacks of all kinds. i believe that efforts in this direction should be identified and matched with other protection measures and good practices adopted by the international community.
the european parliament suggests that the commission should create the possibility of real representation of european civil society in international internet governance forums and in internet standardisation organisations or consortia. the protection of the internet infrastructure and its resilience to cyberattacks, as well as the protection of data and privacy, are important to the european union. the commission and the member states should step up their efforts to ensure cybersecurity in the european union and participate in international cooperation in this field. i believe that further measures are needed to achieve a better understanding and awareness of cybercrime and cloud computing jurisdiction on an equal footing and to establish clear obligations and responsibilities for stakeholders. i stress the importance of electronic services and in particular of electronic signatures and the need to create a public key infrastructure at pan-european level to ensure the cross-border interoperability of electronic signatures and to enhance security on the internet. i would like to conclude by drawing attention to the fact that, in order to increase consumer confidence in accessing information and services available on the internet, it is becoming increasingly necessary to certify websites for security reasons.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the active interest of the european parliament in the important area of internet governance has helped to consolidate and underpin the position of the european union. in recent years the public policy dimension of internet governance has become more visible and more important as internet use has grown and its governance has taken on wider implications. the rapporteur mr sosa wagner – and i pay tribute to him – and his colleagues are to be congratulated for addressing the relevant public policy issues in the report. parliament and the commission share many similar ideas and goals in this respect. you will have noticed that, when i presented the digital agenda for europe to you, many of the issues raised in this report are reflected in its actions. the principle that i would like to highlight is the need to ensure that european values, as you have underlined, are enshrined in the global debate. we must ensure that the interests and rights of eu citizens and enterprises are taken into account in the international debate in managing this global resource. we will be interacting with some of the global internet governance stakeholders at the next meeting of the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers (icann) later this month in brussels. another major event this year which has already been touched upon will certainly be the internet governance forum in vilnius in september. i warmly welcome the european parliament’s intention to participate again this year with a strong delegation. of course i am aware that you, as the presidency, will decide who is in that delegation but i sincerely hope that we will be privileged to have mr sosa wagner and his ideas in that delegation. your active involvement in this forum over the last four years has indeed promoted european values and i can only thank you as members of parliament for this, as well as for the excellent cooperation between our institutions. i hope we can continue to work in this spirit in the area of internet governance. what i would like to underline, with reference to the remark that your rapporteur, mr sosa wagner, made – and this is a very emotive question – is that we are responsible for the protection of minors from abuse over the internet and that we have to combine our efforts to be successful. this is not easy, not because we are not aware of the need to tackle this problem but because those who are involved in this process are people who will use every means they can. you can be absolutely sure of this. if you read the key action plans, you will see that they talk about safety, protection, security and trust. key action 6, for example, is worded already but there are a number of other key actions that are very relevant to the problems you have mentioned. i could not agree more with those who were saying that the role of the eu in icann cannot be underestimated. we should take our responsibility and fulfil our important role. of course with such a huge challenge as that presented by the internet there is also a downside, and we should do our utmost to tackle the problems involved in that downside. in any case we can do more together than each on his own.
in writing. i would like to refer to an amendment i proposed in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the need to support the facilitation of access to and development of the internet in the new member states, particularly in rural areas. european cities - especially those in the east of the union - should not be left out of discussions about the next steps in internet governance. in 2009, the household internet penetration rate was 38% in romania, the second lowest in europe after bulgaria. i therefore welcome the european financial support that will enable romania to guarantee every household access to the internet and i stress that this investment will make a significant contribution to the modernisation of the romanian countryside and to the economic development of the rural environment.
the color-coding issue seems to be the hottest topic of debate today. the idea may be tempting, but it is certainly ineffective and even dangerous. i am far from saying that proper consumer information and measures against nutrition-related diseases are not a priority, but i also believe that we should not demonize food. there's no such thing as good or bad food, just overeating. many traditional european products could end up being avoided by consumers or distorted by producers, with serious consequences for our food industry. in conclusion, i share mrs grossetête's view on meat obtained by ritual slaughter and mr dorfmann's view on the handicrafts, which are also an important tradition in europe, and i support, not least, amendment no 351 mentioned by mr giovanni la via.
in writing. – many european citizens suffer from diet-related health conditions, such as diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease. and cases of these conditions – which are often preventable – are on the rise. a heavy reliance on processed and convenience foods, combined with a lack of accessible information about their contents, means that consumers do not always make healthy choices about their diet – even if they want to. we have a right to clear, accurate information about what we are eating, and it should be easy to compare different products, especially in terms of their fat, sugar and salt contents. the labelling standards, particularly the colour coding which i will be supporting in tomorrow’s vote, will help both those who have specific dietary needs, as well as those who are conscious of their general diet, to make the right choices. education about diet and nutrition alone is not enough – it must be backed up with accessible and reliable information which people can easily use. this is vital to ensuring that people can make the right choices about their diet, and is one of the best ways we can tackle the diet-related diseases which are so prominent across the european union.
mr president, today is the first time i am ashamed to be a member of the european parliament. it is the first time that a man who denies the peace treaty of trianon signed after the first world war is promoted and voted for such a great position in europe. the romanian people... (the president cut off the speaker.)
my card didn't work and my vote is against it.
mr president, i do not want to enter into details. i just want to remind you that the chairman of the meeting and the president of parliament informed us that those who were going to abstain and those who were going to vote against were going to be doing the same thing. this announcement was of course misleading, but, nevertheless, since the announcement came from the chair of the meeting, it was a valid announcement, and, therefore, i think that the vote should be repeated based on the clarification you have just given to us.
given that president buzek's explanations of the voting procedure were confusing and contradictory, that some voting machines did not work, i believe that a repeat vote would bring transparency and a legitimate result. as one of my colleagues mentioned, we are being watched by members in 27 states, i think we need to prove to those who elected us that we are transparent and fair. it is regrettable that, with so many meps contesting the way the voting process was conducted, a repeat vote under normal conditions was refused, which does not reflect fair treatment for all meps. that is why your conviction, the conviction of mr president, the conviction of the colleagues who said that these votes were taken must be the conviction of all of us, must be the conviction of all the members of the european union.
in writing. − the nomination of laszlo tokes for the post of ep vice-president is an offense to romania, given the chauvinist speech of this colleague, and his election to this post, following a vote that is questionable from a procedural point of view, is even more serious. such a nomination should not have taken place in the ep, which is responsible to the european citizens, but, given that it has been made, we would have liked the vote to have been conducted in perfect procedural compliance. as it has not been so, this choice affects the image of the ep, especially in romania, where public opinion is directly interested in this subject. whether laszlo tokes will perform well in his current position is less important at this point, what is really important is that a european nation has been deeply hurt.
in writing. − today's vote on the election of mr tőkés as vice-president of the ep has been a disgrace. first, the president's explanations on how to vote have been both confusing and contradictory. as a result nobody knew for sure how to proceed. second, the voting machines of a number of romanian meps – expected to vote against – were curiously not working properly. third, the vote was cast anyway and the president had left the entire matter hanging, leaving the room. fourth, the sensible request from the floor that the vote be repeated under normal circumstances has been rejected. fifth, so was the announcement that there were more votes than members present! sixth, instead we were simply informed that the vote had been validated anyway! seventh, even so, nobody could explain how 168 votes could represent a 'qualified majority' in a parliament numbering 751 members! in fact, the epp has thus forcefully imposed its will on the entire parliament! i regret this, because they can certainly do better than this, and we, the other meps, equally deserve better!
in writing. − the european transparency initiative has been in place since 2005, adopted by the commission, and followed only a year later by the publication of the green paper on improving the transparency, openness and accountability of eu governance. the reason for adopting these documents was the fundamental right of the european citizen to know where european funds are going. to a greater or lesser extent, each of them contributes financially to these projects. the publication of information on major projects online before decisions on their financing are taken is a common practice within international financial institutions. until now, the european commission has been an exception, although there is no reason why the community executive should have lower standards of transparency. in these circumstances, parliament's request to the commission to publish information on the internet in good time in order to allow direct access to documentation on european financing is perfectly in line with the transparency policy adopted at union level. it is important that projects approved by the commission are beyond suspicion and that the public is informed from the very beginning of the application process.
in writing. − to bring the european institutions and bodies closer to the citizens they serve and to highlight their contribution to social and economic cohesion and the sustainable development of europe, one of the european union's core concerns is to increase its transparency. i voted in favour of this report because i support the commission's promotion of a well-established, unified approach to access to information on beneficiaries of community funds. this will eliminate differences in the way member states publish this information. this will enable us to obtain a european-wide picture of the data presented and at the same time to achieve a higher degree of credibility and accountability to european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider the need for transparency of regional policies to be particularly important in order to increase access to the european transparency initiative (eiti) information base for potential beneficiaries. i believe that the involvement of local and regional authorities is essential to the transparency of regional policies, and that they have a dual role to play in this respect. on the one hand, they will exploit the benefits of the ten by facilitating the widest possible access to this information base for beneficiaries of the funds, which could constitute concrete examples of good practice in regional funding. at the same time, local and regional authorities will have a key role in promoting this database in the most appropriate ways so that the information reaches citizens as easily as possible. it is also necessary to establish systems for measuring the degree of access to the etias information base in order to have a clearer projection of the level of access to the information contained in this database. the identification of a low level of use will require the authorities managing it at the subsidiary level to find more effective methods of promotion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the kelly report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning eu financial contributions to the international fund for ireland (ifi). such inter-regional cooperation and reconciliation projects should be supported, in particular with a view to furthering social and economic progress. the ifi has been a key part of cross-community reconciliation and recognition needs to be given to the key role played by the eu in this area. lessons can be learned from the successes of the ifi initiatives, which may be applied to other areas of the union where there is community marginalisation and tension. the use of eu funds to support the ifi’s ‘football for peace’ project is a point that i wish to highlight. the promotion of reconciliation and mutual understanding amongst young people through the medium of sport is an initiative which should be lauded. indeed the use of sport to empower individuals and combat social exclusion should not be underestimated.
in writing. − the freight transport segment at union level is very competitive in a constantly growing market. in these circumstances, it seems contradictory that rail transport is being used less and less. only 10% of goods transported within the european union use railways. in fact, rail freight traffic has halved since 20 years ago. the european commission has recognised the key role of rail freight since 2001. the horizon set by the white paper on european transport policies was 2010. the rail freight market now faces the challenge of improving the quality of the services provided, due to the lack of conformity which is a handicap in competition with other modes of freight transport. the evolution of the rail freight sector becomes inexplicable given the existence of three rail legislative packages. however, they are not sufficiently harmonised with national legislation and rail systems are not cross-border connected. in these circumstances, the regulation proposed by the european parliament is intended to make rail freight transport more efficient by means of coordination between member states and infrastructure managers.
in writing. − i voted for the 'internet of things report' because i thought that its adoption would boost the development of an innovative technology in the european union. it will provide business opportunities for european companies and will benefit from tackling climate change and improving energy and transport management. as an alternative rapporteur, i tabled amendments to allow the protection of personal data to prevent it from being used for other purposes by companies that have access to it. the report therefore contains important provisions relating to the protection of citizens' fundamental rights.
in writing. − the internet of things is a concept of the future anchored in the present. it is up to us to make sure that it 'works' for the benefit of all citizens in a harmonised and effective way. the new system of integrating technology into everyday life must be implemented with strict respect for consumer privacy rights. the commission should consult the data protection working party on a regular basis and not only when it considers it necessary. we're talking about devices and technologies that are capable of transmitting the position, characteristics and identity of an object. these devices, in addition to the right to silence, should only be integrated at the request of the individual and not as a manufacturing standard. at the same time, the commission must take into account, when deciding on the implementation of projects relating to the internet of things, which network for interconnecting these objects it will choose. right now, we're facing a lot of cyber attacks on the internet. in my view, the use of the world wide web to interconnect the internet of things can pose both a security risk and a substantial burden on the current network. developing a parallel network for interconnecting objects may be the solution in this situation by sharing the spectrum and the digital dividend.
in writing. − the debate on internet governance is undoubtedly of particular importance, given that this means of communication has become indispensable in many countries, both in professional and personal life. it is for this reason that it is uninspired to leave the strategic decisions regarding the future of the internet exclusively to a private company in the americas. the report we voted on today is essential to creating a governance model that also involves the final consumer. i believe that we need to encourage collaboration between universities and business, including at local, regional and national level, and also to involve the players in the asian market, given the rapid development of this field. it is also important to pay close attention to finding a balance between protecting users' privacy and recording personal data on various websites, precisely because of the emergence of social networks, but also because of the development of online commerce. the internet is also a great way to promote european cultural heritage and values, and an engine for innovation, bridging the gap with other parts of the world.
in writing. − less than 1% of the eu budget is currently spent on innovation. and this is happening as europe has become aware that its future lies in the research-innovation-education triangle. the european parliament's request to increase the amount allocated to innovation is perfectly justified in these circumstances. we are approaching the time of the financial projections for the period 2014-2020 and this request must be taken into account. the transformation of the european economy into a sustainable one must lead to a greater competitiveness of european societies and allow new opportunities for national economies to emerge as a result of the economic and environmental challenges facing europe. it is also precisely because of the financial crisis and the credit impasse that increased funding, both at community and national level, and the creation of appropriate funding instruments is decisive for innovation capacity. a fragmentation into a multitude of objectives and a number of specific eu initiatives has not produced satisfactory results so far. the funds must be directed to the areas where the boomerang effect is greatest. in this case, the decisive criterion must be the added value for europe.
in writing. − innovation is a particularly important issue in the context of modern society. a society based on innovation can anticipate possible crises, both socioeconomic and natural. for this reason, it is essential that innovation policy be one that can facilitate the progress of society and not one that stagnates through various bureaucratic tricks. as mr winkler points out in his report that innovation today must also take into account the social value it brings, i believe that 21st century innovation must also take into account the impact it has on the individual and on society as a whole. innovations such as the 'internet of things', for example, must take into account and respect the right to privacy and the protection of personal data of the individual. european society must not become a 'big brother' society, but on the contrary, innovation must help people to communicate freely in an open society. the contribution of technological and social innovation is in fact our evolution and for this reason i ask the commission to take the utmost responsibility and foresight in drawing up the action plan for innovation.
in writing. − i consider it important to remove from paragraph 22 the reference calling for the eu to eliminate agricultural export subsidies. the report's author and his colleagues know full well that export subsidies - which support european agricultural production in this time of crisis - are not the real problem. i abstained from the final vote, however, because i believe that this report should have been more grounded in reality, more pragmatic and less ideologised.
president of the commission. - i consider what mr lópez aguilar said to be essential. we have to look at all of this in a holistic way. we cannot just look at some governance rules in the framework of the stability and growth pact, we have to look also at what we can do for growth in europe, especially to ensure that it is inclusive sustainable growth. we've said it many times: we do not want the costs of this adaptation, this adjustment, to be borne by the weakest. they didn't cause the crisis. we therefore think that there should be a better redistribution of the sacrifices and we also think, as mr lópez aguilar said, that an external dimension is necessary. that is why we are going to the g20 with this determination, for example, to propose mechanisms for the financial sector to contribute to the crisis response, and also to seek to strengthen a common european position at the global level, particularly within the g20.
with regard to europe 2020 - a new european strategy for jobs and growth - among the main objectives approved by the european council on 25-26 march this year are those relating to improving the conditions for research and development, in particular so that the combined levels of public and private investment in this sector reach 3% of gross domestic product. it also states that the commission will develop an indicator to reflect the intensity of research, development and innovation. my question is: what is the methodology for developing this indicator and is a consultation programme already in place?
the activities of the rating agencies not only led to the current financial crisis, but also contributed to its worsening. the 2009 regulation of the european parliament and of the council on credit rating agencies was designed as a response to regulate the activity of credit rating agencies. the regulation introduces mandatory registration for all credit agencies operating in the european union, focusing on three main aspects: supervision, transparency and conflict of interest. however, we are far from solving the problem of transparency and the oligopolistic structure of the credit rating agency market. it is not right that the economies of the member states, and therefore their companies, should depend on the ratings of only three agencies. speculation in country ratings can push countries, which are in a critical situation anyway, towards bankruptcy, and in these circumstances i believe that the creation of an exclusive european credit rating agency is necessary, which will be a real competitor and an alternative instrument for existing companies.
in the current crisis, the work of rating agencies is increasingly being criticized because they have failed to objectively assess the degree of credit risk of companies and even states. these agencies did not provide early assessments of crisis risk, but downgraded several european countries, thus aggravating the crisis. the major problem is the lack of competition in the market for rating services, because only three american companies control this market. in this respect, i support president barroso's proposal to set up a european credit rating agency. as is well known, last week one of the three agencies changed germany's rating, following an unacceptable error. in conclusion, the european union must ensure that the activity of credit rating agencies is better regulated in the future.
the elimination of double transparency obligations and the reduction of information requirements for companies with a small market capitalisation will generate estimated global savings of eur 110 million per year. the revision of the prospectus directive will thus allow for an increase in the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union. we must not forget that small and mediumsized enterprises are the engine of the european union's economy. they created 9.4 million jobs in the union between 2002 and 2008 and today provide jobs for 90 million european citizens. there is also a need to harmonise financial transparency requirements across the european union in order to reduce the administrative burden on european companies. the newly created european securities and markets authority will therefore have to seek to coordinate the laws of the member states on the examination and approval of prospectuses.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr klinz, on the excellent work he has done on this report and make the following point: the commission's proposal to simplify and improve the prospectus directive provides a better level of protection for investors and provides them with sufficient and appropriate information. the single passport, once registered and approved by the competent authority in a member state, is valid in any market in the european union. i believe that, in order to reduce bureaucracy, an appropriate legal framework is needed to remove uncertainty regarding the notification of the host state. by also eliminating unnecessary burdens on businesses, we can reduce unnecessarily high costs and administrative burdens by 25% by 2012. finally, i would like to mention that the new rules will better protect investors by giving them the opportunity to better analyse the risks involved in a security before investing.
on behalf of the epp group. as mr böge said, the lisbon treaty commits the european union to new priorities, so it is necessary to provide the necessary financial means to achieve the objectives and implement the union's policies in this context. this obviously requires a comprehensive review covering all aspects of european union expenditure and funds, such as technical and political adjustments to the multiannual financial framework and the interinstitutional agreement and the revision of certain budgetary packages agreed by 2013. but we must not forget that we are in the midst of an economic crisis and that we must use all the means at our disposal to overcome it. i believe that, in addition to the overall review - which must be carried out in a thoughtful and detailed manner - a pragmatic approach is also needed to facilitate our tasks and to speed up the transition from this period, and, as the presidency of the council has said, i believe that the money which has not been spent so far should be redirected in the direction of creating jobs and helping to overcome the crisis. there is no need for additional funds, just the reallocation of funds that have not been used. in the european programmes, member states must be given the possibility to transfer funds from areas where there is insufficient demand to areas where applications have exceeded the allocated amounts. in addition, there are various initiatives approved after 2007, such as the eastern partnership or the future danube strategy. the reallocation of funds to these instruments would make a substantial contribution, together with the contribution of each member state involved, to the initiation and implementation of projects of the utmost importance to the states involved in the region and beyond.
you are right, commissioner, the multiannual financial agreement 2007-13 and its revision must reflect a political vision and we must have the courage to take on this new political vision. the eu 2020 strategy must be the basis for the revision of the multiannual financial agreement and the future financial perspective. unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis is affecting both national and community budgets. we also need solutions to solve the social crisis that has been created by the economic and financial crisis. the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework is a good basis for the economic recovery of the european union. i am referring in particular to the development of transport infrastructure and the energy efficiency of buildings. it was only in april 2009 that i changed the regulation so that all member states have a 4% erdf quota for energy efficiency in housing and social housing. has the commission started to adjust the operational programmes together with the member states in order to adapt them and to have a greater absorption of european funds?
member of the commission. − i could actually repeat the answer. the fact is that when we talk about the precautionary principle, i think it is extremely important how we consider it and what we consider it to be, under that activity. i would simply like to have more data gathered. with the study we launched, we did not launch the study through which we would like to get the cumulative knowledge of what we have accumulated through the eu research programmes but to have an overview of everything which is going around – all the knowledge we have globally. that is the whole intention, but i can fully understand your frustration. as you know i have been in this area for half a year and i will certainly look fully into all the things which you have underlined and try to see how we can best handle that in the future.
member of the commission. − like all the scientific knowledge which we are getting on board. of course, if there is any in existance, we will take it seriously into account in the preparing of the future policy actions or in explaining how we should implement things via the current legislation which we have currently on board. so, simply, step by step, we should increase the quality of the knowledge we have, which is lacking in this area. the problem is serious and, when we get this knowledge on board, i can reassure you that we will act.
member of the commission. − mr kelly, the floods directive was adopted in 2007 and the process of implementation is under way. in the last month, new floods have reminded us of the serious consequences of floods and of the importance of flood risk management which focuses on prevention, preparedness and protection. the floods directive requires all member states to prepare comprehensive plans to reduce flood risks. importantly, the public and interested parties need to be consulted on these plans, and member states need to cooperate in transboundary waterways. the first two implementation deadlines have already expired. firstly, the legal transposition into national law was due by november 2009. to date, 12 member states, including ireland, have met this deadline. ten member states have not yet notified their transposition of the directive, and five member states have only notified partial transposition. the commission is pursuing infringement cases to respond to this situation. as regards the notification by the member states to the commission of administrative arrangements, the deadline expires on 26 june of this year. twenty-three member states, including ireland, have notified. the commission is now checking that all relevant information on the responsible authorities and the geographical coverage of the units of management is in compliance with the directive. the main implementation milestones are still some time away. across the european union, member states are preparing these steps, which are: firstly, to carry out a preliminary flood risk assessment in 2011 and to identify areas of potential significant flood risks; secondly, to prepare detailed flood hazard maps and flood risk maps by 2013; and, thirdly, to prepare the first flood risk management plans in 2015. the public and interested parties must also be consulted on these plans before they are adopted. as regards ireland, we understand the implementation is well under way and we have no reason to believe ireland is delayed in implementing the directive. ireland has notified the legislation transposing the directive and has reported administrative arrangements. we furthermore welcome the fact that ireland has already undertaken pilot exercises in the dodder catchment in the dublin area as well as in the lee catchment in the south of ireland – where a draft catchment flood risk management plan was prepared and submitted to public consultation. ireland also takes an active role at the european level in promoting valuable information exchange between the member states on different topics related to the implementation of the directive, such as on how to deal with flash and pluvial floods, flood mapping and development of flood risk management plans.
flood risk prevention and management involves transnational solutions to the eu's hydrological problems and requires massive investment. i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering the development of a common policy on inland waters, as in the case of the common maritime policy, which would deal in an integrated manner with spatial planning, environmental protection, protection of the marine environment, maritime transport, development of areas along inland waters or coastal areas.
the gender aspects of the economic crisis, the roadmap for gender equality and the women's charter are three themes with a common denominator: the status of women in society. if we really want to improve the status of women in society, we need concrete policies and measures, as outlined in the women's charter proposed in the esp manifesto. if we really need more representation of women in decision-making structures, both in the public and private sectors, we must introduce gender parity in the european institutions. i believe that the european parliament and the european commission, in 2014, must set an example in this respect, through commitment, through a firm political will.
in writing. eu social affairs ministers have admitted that 120 million european citizens live below the poverty line. looking at the statistics before the economic crisis, we are facing a 50% increase in the number of poor people in the eu in just two years. the recession has accentuated a consistent trend over the past decade: women are affected by poverty in much greater numbers than men. unemployment, poor working conditions, a pension below the minimum subsistence income, and difficult access to decent public services are some of the main causes of a state of poverty whose specifics justify us to speak of the feminization of poverty in europe. unfortunately, many right-wing governments, under the pretext of recession, have abandoned policies against gender gaps. budgets for care and leave are particularly affected, with serious negative implications, including for children. in the middle of the european year against poverty and social exclusion, the balance is negative and the future bleak, as long as there is no concern and no will - both at the level of many national governments and of the european institutions - to improve the lives of the most deprived among our fellow citizens.
in writing. the elimination of all forms of discrimination in all spheres of socioeconomic life is an essential precondition for ensuring the human rights and well-being of every citizen. promoting the principle of equal opportunities for men and women, together with ensuring an increased participation of women in economic and social life as full protagonists, must be a constant concern. i believe that this approach should be reflected in the common agricultural policy in order to ensure fair and equal representation of the sexes. on the other hand, this approach can ensure the effective implementation of different policies at european level. i believe that gender equality in the economy is very important for rural development and that the measures that are being implemented under pillar 2 on this issue must be maintained in the future cap. given that the principle of gender equality is promoted by european legislation and is a fundamental requirement of the europe 2020 strategy, we consider it appropriate to include this aspect in the future cap, including through the use of new instruments to promote this principle.
the community's involvement in the joint research programme in the baltic sea is evidence of the european institutions' desire to improve the coordination of policies, programmes and other activities mentioned in the research region. joint action at community level is needed to meet the challenges and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programming by integrating all research activities into a well-coordinated, unitary programme that promotes sustainable development in the region. the bonus programme is of particular importance for the baltic sea region, but its role should not be limited to this region. i would like this programme to serve as a model for other forms of regional cooperation in europe, such as those in the danube area or the mediterranean, in the future. in this way, we will have a strong, dynamic and competitive european union.
environmental problems in certain regions could be tackled much more successfully if research activities carried out by individual states were pooled. i therefore welcome the commission proposal and the rapporteur's proposal to support the bonus programme for the baltic sea region. i think it is good that a recital has been included asking the commission to make a final evaluation of the programme to see what is the quality and efficiency of the implementation of such programmes, especially in terms of the progress made in relation to the objectives set. these results should be published on the programme website so that citizens can be informed about the programme's progress and performance and business can make business plans based on the recommendations and opportunities arising from the research results in this region. what is important is to see the results of this programme expressed in clear benefits for the environment, for the citizens and for the development of this area, especially in the context of the current economic crisis.
on behalf of the s&d group. yesterday we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the first time that european citizens enjoyed the freedom to travel without restrictions within the european union. on the occasion of the anniversary, commissioner malmström said: schengen is one of the strongest symbols of the european union's ability to improve the living conditions of its citizens. and martin schulz, the president of the s&d, said: schengen is perhaps the most successful and concrete achievement of the european union in the last 30 years. on the same occasion, i too would simply say: happy schengen, happy freedom! the anniversary gift for the schengen area could be romania and bulgaria. the council concluded, after completion of the evaluations, that the two member states had sufficient guarantees to take the first step towards accession to the schengen area. in our favourable opinion tomorrow we shall enshrine this. the benefits of final accession will not only be for the citizens of romania and bulgaria, but also for the whole european union. by increasing cooperation in the economic, social and administrative fields, the union will be strengthened. the governments of the two member states must complete the requirements of the schengen roadmap in the accession process. i am pleased that the european parliament has succeeded in fulfilling its role as guarantor of european democracy. the amendment proposed by the rapporteur merely establishes a kind of transparent collaboration between the european institutions, the only one capable of bringing about rapid and concrete results in the process of debating and approving european legislation. interinstitutional disagreements within the european union must not delay or jeopardise the rights, freedoms and well-being of european citizens, who are the subjects of all the european institutions. the introduction of a new evaluation system, as proposed by mr coelho, 'will guarantee security and strengthen the principle of mutual trust for the maintenance of the schengen area'. i support mr coelho's proposals.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, very much for the way he has handled this dossier and to congratulate him on all the work he has done. i strongly support what he said earlier, not only for the current data protection assessment, but also for the other reports to be drawn up in the remaining areas not assessed. the council must be able to ensure that all the information necessary to enable parliament to take an appropriate and correct decision is made available to the members of the european parliament. i hope that we can find a solution so that we can continue our work under normal conditions and make informed decisions.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr coelho on the excellent work he has done on this report, which is so important for romania and bulgaria, and to make the following clarification: the adoption by romania of the law regulating the processing of personal data is an important step towards fulfilling all the conditions for accession to the schengen area. the ministry of administration and interior has made important progress recently, so that romania is on schedule to enter the schengen area on the march 2011 deadline. romania has been cited as an example for the scomar maritime surveillance system in a number of reports by european experts. new territorial border police services will also be established, cooperation with frontex will be improved and investment in land border security will continue. finally, i would like to point out that border security is a very important part of the
first of all, i would like to add myself to the list of those who congratulate mr coelho. indeed, he has done extraordinary work for romania and bulgaria. first of all, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that romania has indeed been given as an example of good practice in terms of maritime security. moreover, i believe that romania, and bulgaria as well, fulfils the conditions to be part of the sis system. i therefore believe that the commission must also be involved in supporting the two countries in completing the other assessments, so that we can successfully enter what is meant by the common space of the european union. we are talking about enlargement of the european union as a whole, we are talking about enlargement on values. one of those values is freedom and the right to free movement.
in writing. i am pleased that the european council has concluded that the two newest member states of the european union, romania and bulgaria, have fulfilled the conditions and that the schengen acquis will therefore apply to them. for european citizens, one of the most tangible results of european integration is the creation of the schengen area, which allows the free movement of citizens across borders, this is especially true of citizens of former socialist countries, since the iron curtain made it virtually impossible - literally and figuratively - to travel to the countries of western europe. now, 20 years after the fall of the communist regime, it seems like a bad dream. by joining the schengen area, romania and bulgaria are taking another step towards integration into the single european union. with the abolition of internal border controls, the concept of borders takes on a new meaning, borders between member states take on a new function: they cease to be administrative barriers and become bridges linking the peoples of europe, the european countries. it is a welcome development that romania and bulgaria will soon be able to join this schengen area with its many bridges and air-gapped borders.
i welcome the initiative of my colleague ivo belet to set up a single system to protect the interests of sportsmen who use the services of sports agents and to reduce the criminal phenomena in this area: lack of transparency of transfers, money laundering, trafficking in human beings. in my view, it is essential that we pay due attention not only to football but to all other sports. for example, at the moment we have about 6 000 agents active in europe, representing 30 sports, with an activity estimated at hundreds of millions of euros per year. under these circumstances, it will be no easy task to impose a single regulation for the licensing of players' agents. in addition, we will have to advocate a clearer definition of the duties of an agent, whether as a player manager or just a transfer agent. in the perspective of... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, at this stage we can agree that the intergovernmental method has shown its limits. we must be more ambitious and courageous and set up real joint economic governance. economic coordination – in order to achieve an economic pillar alongside a monetary one – and, ultimately, a genuine economic union are important. nevertheless, this should not mean setting up unnecessary burdens and regulation; but it should entail more competition for organisations and innovation. solidarity has to prevail and should not remain a vain word for member states in difficulties. there is no reason why those who applied austerity plans for years and are doing well should always pay for the mistakes of the others. this is why we have to put in place efficient sanction mechanisms, more scrutiny of national budgets by the eu and tighter rules for the stability and growth pact. the eu 2020 strategy should mark a turn in eu policy and cannot remain just another target or a future failure. i would like especially to praise commissioner kroes, who did an excellent job outlining a coherent strategy for the digital agenda. i believe that the ict sector contains massive economic potential and gains. at a time when we want to relaunch the eu single market the ict could pave the way, provided that we focus on encouraging competition by balanced regulation of the market. tomorrow, it will be up to the member states to face their responsibilities and to take an ambitious stand. to put it in a few small words: time is running out.
this month's european council also has in mind the theme of member states' national objectives and their coherence with the eu 2020 targets. of course, the methods and directions that will be followed by the states are determinant in relation to the objectives, and the regions will have to manage new challenges. i therefore believe that cohesion policy must continue to be supported by the council as the main instrument of economic growth. i have also made the same point in the report i initiated in the committee on regional development. i reaffirm my conviction that cohesion policy is the main pillar of future development, generating growth and employment. in concrete terms, this would mean supporting, through projects, the specificity of each region, in accordance with its development directions. europe 2020 must be the europe of effective partnerships to generate growth and jobs.
in writing. although the debate focused on the eu 2020 strategy and economic governance, the european council will most likely also address iceland's eu accession request. in the light of the commission's opinion on iceland's accession to the eu (of 24 february 2010) and the report i am currently preparing and which is being discussed by the committee on foreign affairs, i am confident that at its meeting on 17 june this year the european council will recommend the opening of accession negotiations with iceland. i also express the hope that iceland will complete the substantial progress already made and adopt the acquis communautaire, becoming a new member of the european family.
in writing. the eu is facing the effects of the economic and financial crisis, the social effects of rising unemployment, climate change and demographic challenges. demographic challenges and the effects of the economic and financial crisis are jeopardising the sustainability of pension systems and increasing the risk of poverty, especially for older people and young people. the eu 2020 strategy should have reflected the union's political vision by 2020 to generate sustainable economic growth, jobs and decent livelihoods for european citizens. it will form the basis both for the mid-term review of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and for the future financial perspective 2014-2020. the eu needs to invest in the sustainable development of the trans-european intermodal transport system, in european energy infrastructure, in energy efficiency and in agriculture. the eu 2020 strategy should be based on the outcome of public consultations and debates on the future cohesion policy, the future common agricultural policy, the future common transport and energy policy, the future industrial policy and the future research and innovation policy. i call on the european council to initiate consultations with the european parliament, national parliaments, local authorities, social partners and ngos before adopting the eu 2020 strategy. only then will the eu 2020 strategy not remain on paper.
in writing. – the eu today is facing a crucial challenge: it has to make the choice between the approach based on the national interest, strongly promoted by some of the member states, and the common aspiration that the eu should remain a major global player. the upcoming g20 summit should trigger a moment of reflection: if we want a stronger post-crisis eu, we must be aware of the fact that even the biggest european states will soon stand small in front of the brics or the us in the global challenge, the answer should be based on the common european approach and more economic coordination, rather than on the intergovernmental approach which has a strong tendency towards national interests and favours exceptions. we will not be able to have a stronger eu if new dividing lines are drawn among the member states and the new economic governance focuses only on the eurozone, removing the fundamental principle of european solidarity. i think that planning a successful european core while excluding those who are not in the euro club is quite immoral. the eurozone can not be successful without the success of the whole eu. any other approach is shaking the very foundations of the european architecture.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, eu-russian relations have a strong strategic attribute, being characterised not only by our economic interest, but also by the objective of close cooperation in various international areas. geographically russia is and will remain the european union’s closest neighbour, and will continue to play a protagonist role in both the euro-asian and the euro-atlantic space. one could also speak about eu-russian complementarities between needs and resources, as well as the coincidence or convergence of certain objectives of global relevance. one has to understand that an unstable, vulnerable russia affected by internal strife constitutes a challenge to the european union, while the opposite stands for stability. i hope also that russia will understand that a stable neighbourhood is better for its security and not the other way round. the framework for eu-russia strategic relations should envisage action on several levels. partnership for modernisation is really important; this would contribute to the creation of trust, interdependence and convergence with russia across broad areas of common interest. however, a partnership for wto accession should also be considered, through which russia could benefit from the european union facilitation gateway for its wto integration. an energy community is important. this should also include a trilateral cooperation instrument with the transition countries. perhaps, together with the united states, we also have to talk in a trilateral format about updating european and global security arrangements in such a way as to establish a kind of global mechanism of equilibrium through empowerment and subsidiarity, within which we have to approach human rights in their right perspective. we have to avoid using the dialogue about human rights as a geopolitical tool, but put them at the foundation of real political cooperation and real institutional interoperation.
ladies and gentlemen, cooperation with russia must be continued and refined, but the new eu partnership agreement must be much more precise and legally binding. cooperation on modernisation should be reciprocal and proportionate. as the coordinator of the subcommittee on human rights, i would like to emphasise that the russian state has been found guilty in almost all of the 115 judgments of the european court of human rights. despite the fact that the names of the guilty are sometimes mentioned, they are not held accountable, and the innocent are not compensated. in contrast to the soviet army officer v. kononov, who in 1944 brutally murdered and burned alive peaceful residents of latvian villages, including pregnant women, and who was found guilty of war crimes by the european court of human rights, russia this year awarded him a state medal. moreover, prominent russian politicians have even voiced threats to the european court of human rights in this connection. this shows the differences in our understanding of human rights and that of russia, and these issues must be addressed in the new treaty. thank you.
madam president, to my mind, in terms of results and consequences, the german-russian summit of 5 june 2010 could prove to be more substantive than the rostov-on-don eu-russia summit. certainly, security matters, transnistria included, should be discussed between the eu high representative and the russian foreign minister in a more coherent and permanent framework, provided that the two parties mean the same thing when they speak, one about the dispute resolution mechanism, and the other about the eu-russia security forum for exchanging views on current international affairs and security matters. but even as i admit and respect, being a professor of international politics myself, that grand strategies are reserved for the big powers, i cannot forget that the details, wherein resides the devil, have usually been left to the lesser powers to deal with.
in writing. the partnership for modernisation concluded at the rostov-on-don summit lays the foundations for better economic and investment cooperation between the european union and russia. this can be an important stimulus for further economic reforms and the democratisation of russia. on the one hand, we support the position that russia's modernization in the 21st century must be based on democratic institutions and values. on the other hand, we cannot agree with the draft european security treaty proposed by russia. it would undermine the role of nato and the osce. i believe that visa liberalisation will only be possible once russia has fulfilled all the necessary conditions. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. i would like to stress that the republic of moldova and ukraine have made significant progress in fulfilling the conditions for the lifting of the visa regime. the european union must continue to be involved in supporting the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of this eu-russia summit, as it seems to me that things are moving in the right direction. russia took a more constructive stance than in the past, and on the eu side baroness ashton and european council president van rompuy successfully represented the union. i'd like to be a little more cautious about russia, though. it is undeniable that russia is a strategic partner of major importance, both economically and in energy and trade in general. but we must not lose sight of the fact that russia does not see the eu as a real partner and prefers to deal with more serious issues bilaterally with the different member states. we must be consistent and show russia that the eu can be coherent and that russia must talk to the eu on an equal footing and not to the member states, which will avoid the possible risks of 'divide and rule' strategies on the part of russia. i also recognise that while important progress has been made, it is essential that the eu insists on its values, in particular the rule of law, democracy and human rights. to put these elements on the back burner is to renounce our values and our identity.
in writing. − the earth observation initiative, gmes, is an important project for the future of the european union. a well-designed financial concept is indispensable for the installation of gmes and for the provision and use of data and services. in this context, it is of particular importance that, both during and after the initial exploitation phase, sufficient financial resources are used in a timely manner so that the data and services provided are reliable and continuously available. it would be desirable to supplement the financial resources provided for in the commission proposal for the initial exploitation phase, as this could provide for commitment appropriations for other areas of the space component. access to gmes data and services must be open to all eu citizens and businesses in order to allow the development of a downstream market, especially among small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition to environmental and security aspects, gmes aims to promote progress and innovation. free access should also be possible for businesses in third countries, provided that, reciprocally, european individuals and businesses also have access to data from outside the eu.
in writing. − 14 countries, including romania, have become part of the enhanced cooperation effort in the area of legislation applicable to divorce and legal separation. faced with procedural difficulties and major differences in regulations, the 14 states take a first step toward simplifying and standardizing the laws governing divorce. based on the facts 140 000 international divorces that have complicated the work of the courts in several countries we can say that this is a historic opportunity that gives the right to the 14 countries and, subsequently, anyone who wants to associate with the initiative, to use the instrument of enhanced cooperation. europe already has a common law on civil and family law, except for three states that have not wanted to join. harmonisation of european conflict-of-law rules will facilitate the mutual recognition of judgments in the area of freedom, security and justice, and this will lead to a strengthening of mutual trust. there are currently 26 types of conflict of laws across the 27 member states of the european union in relation to divorce. the first step towards establishing enhanced cooperation has been taken and will reduce these conflicts to only 14.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the scicluna report on the adoption of the euro by estonia on 1 january 2011. estonia was among the first and worst affected by the economic crisis. however, it has managed to weather the recession, with a debt-to-gdp ratio of 7.2% in 2009, well below the 60% reference value. the general government budget deficit was also 1,7% of gdp, compared with the reference value of 3%. i therefore believe that estonia's accession to the euro area will strengthen the economic and monetary union at a critical moment and that its success model can also provide a boost for the rest of the member states that do not yet meet the convergence criteria.
in writing. − citizens of the union are now guaranteed full rights of defence if they are involved in criminal proceedings in a member state other than their own. according to the directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings, all stages of the investigation or trial will be translated and explained to the suspect or accused involved in the proceedings in their mother tongue. the measure improves the quality of defence for european citizens, building on the unanimously accepted considerations of the right to a fair trial throughout the union. the directive thus complements the legal provisions on cases where european arrest warrants are exercised, with a view to improving the conditions of defence for european citizens accused or suspected in criminal proceedings. translation and interpretation services - provided to the accused in a language he understands - of the investigation or trial proceedings concerning him will be guaranteed in the legislation of each member state within three years. this is the deadline all eu countries have to harmonize their criminal laws. according to the directive, translations and interpretations cover interrogations at police headquarters, dialogue with the lawyer and including the translation of important documents such as detention orders, indictments or indictments.
in writing. − the council and european parliament directive aims to establish a single area of justice with minimum common rules and standards on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings in the european union. i voted in favour of this report because i support improving the rights of suspects and accused persons who do not speak the language of the country concerned and who do not understand the methodology of the legal procedure. these rights would be available to any person from the moment the national competent authorities officially notify him of the fact that he is suspected or accused of having committed a criminal offence. i believe that the existence of common minimum standards for these rights should facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition, thus improving the functioning of judicial cooperation between the member states of the european union.
in writing. − i welcome this progress towards fairer and more equal judicial procedures in member states. it is a fundamental principle of any decent justice system that defendants understand what is happening to them, what charges they face, and the nature of the evidence against them. but i would like to add that it is not just defendants who need translation and interpretation facilities. there are cases where victims of crimes do not have access to full information about the procedures and processes around them in court. victims' needs, too, must be addressed.
in writing. − i consider that the distinction between self-employed drivers and mobile workers is not clear, which may lead to the risk of 'false' self-employed drivers who, in order to avoid falling within the scope of the directive, do not have a contract of employment with an employer, but are also not free to have relationships with several customers. i agree with the rapporteur that a clearer definition of 'independent drivers' is needed rather than the inclusion of genuinely independent drivers in the legislative framework of this directive. i think it is necessary for the commission to review the report thoroughly, which i hope will happen as soon as possible.
in writing. - in the report by mrs renate sommer on 'consumer information on food products', i voted in favour of amendment no 351, because consumers must be correctly informed about the country of origin of food products. for this reason, i have supported mandatory country of origin labelling for meat, milk, vegetables, fruit and single ingredient products. first, we must ensure that european citizens are better protected and are not misled about the fact that a food is produced in a particular member state when it actually originates in another country. this will enable consumers to make informed choices and to consume products of a certain origin and quality. second, better labelling can reduce tax evasion.
in writing. − unifying european regulations on the labelling of prepackaged food will enable consumers to make informed choices without causing complications and major financial burdens for producers. the debate on product labelling in the european parliament on wednesday was of great interest to meps because it affects all of us. in a world dominated by unhealthy lifestyles, with obesity and cardiovascular disease reaching epidemic proportions and threatening health across europe, it is important that every consumer makes an informed choice when choosing certain foods. uniform regulations at european level, placing in a visible place the lipid content, saturated fatty acids, sugars and energy content will overcome the language barriers that some consumers might invoke. the european parliament, with its decision this week, demonstrates its understanding of protecting european consumers and recognises the importance of informed decisions. it is up to the consumer, once the new regulations are implemented, to make a choice regarding his own consumption. i hope that these regulations will quickly outgrow the institutional procedures within the union and become binding in the near future.
in writing. − we know that there is a european consumer policy and consumer protection policy, which aims to provide a high level of uniformity throughout the european union, but consumers must have clear and understandable information on the essential nutritional aspects of food in order to make informed choices. i also believe that the need for a new food information regulation arises in the context of a general awareness of the importance of switching to a healthier diet and of european consumers who are increasingly sensitive to the content of food. i believe that this will also provide an incentive for both agricultural producers and industrial groups to take steps to improve labelling in response to consumer demands. the information on the label must not mislead the consumer, when purchasing the products, as to the characteristics of the food and, in particular, its nature, identity, properties, composition, quantity, durability, origin or provenance, and the methods of manufacture or production. as hippocrates said, "let your food be your medicine and your medicine be your food".
in writing. − mandatory country of origin labelling will support european producers by recognising their high quality standards. our citizens want to know where the products they buy come from, whether they are european or imported; at the same time, consumers in other markets trust what is produced and processed in the european union. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to use the eu's own resources to support the development of the eu's food industry. the rejection of the amendment on colour codes is welcome, because it would have had the opposite effect: it could have turned consumers away from traditional, healthy and natural european products by simplifying the proposed assessment method.
in writing. − this regulation should provide for a labelling system valid throughout the eu, which - with a few exceptions - applies to all products of the food industry, and not just to certain categories of products. harmonisation of the labelling system is also of particular relevance to the proper functioning of the internal market, as additional national regulations and different interpretations by member states of existing european labelling legislation currently create barriers to trade and competition issues. addressing these problems can help to bring down prices for food producers and traders and, by implication, for consumers. in romania, a survey of 1,000 people aged 18 to 50 shows that romanians are most concerned about product safety (75%), fraudulent clauses (67%) and credit-lending services (51%), and least concerned about tourism services (28%). that is why food labelling is only one of many aspects of food. this form of information can complement, but not replace, efforts to raise public awareness through campaigns and educational measures on relatively healthy lifestyles.
in writing. − i voted for the ep resolution on the eu 2020 strategy because i thought that this strategy should be ambitious in the long term in terms of increasing employment and reducing poverty by 50% in the eu. the majority of europeans currently living in or at risk of poverty are women, especially older women, single mothers and single women caring for dependent persons. high quality jobs must be a central priority of the eu 2020 strategy and a stronger focus on the proper functioning of labour markets and social conditions is vital to improving employment performance. we need to promote decent work, secure workers' rights across europe and improve working conditions. thus, member states should take measures aimed at increased participation in an open labour market, contributing to a reduction in undeclared work, ensuring the full participation of women in the labour market, promoting professional opportunities for women and the need for better conditions to reconcile work and family life.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis has demonstrated that a change in european governance is inevitable. the task force on european governance should focus on strengthening the economic policy coordination of the 27 member states. even if the stability and growth pact has been broken by many member states, this instrument of public finance discipline should be revitalised and the sanctions should be reinforced for the member states that do not implement measures to consolidate their public budgets and to keep deficits under control. the task force should also concentrate on damaging fiscal competition among the member states.
we have indeed witnessed serious, regrettable incidents, including loss of life, victims of the seemingly endless conflict between israelis and palestinians. we are witnessing a deadlock which is extremely dangerous for peace and destructive for the real prospects of dialogue and reconciliation. on the other hand, madam high representative, as you know, the european union is the most important donor in the region and therefore i believe we must become its most important political partner, given the huge sums we allocate each year to help the palestinians inside and outside the occupied territories. i believe we can do more to enforce human rights in the middle east, to reorient turkey geostrategically, to get the international community, including the arab states, to take a more dynamic role in ensuring a steady flow of humanitarian support. last but not least, i think it's important that we move forward and promote more vigorously the sustainable two-state solution, despite those who oppose peace and stability in the region.
the situation in gaza and the regrettable incident between israeli forces and the humanitarian flotilla have had a negative impact on stability in the middle east, with direct consequences for the peace process in the region. the loss of life and the continuing humanitarian crisis in the gaza strip are regrettable. i would like to take this opportunity to express my condolences to the bereaved families. i believe that israel would have more to gain if it were more open to international cooperation, including with un bodies. i appreciate the steps israel has taken to set up a commission of inquiry, but i do not think they are sufficient. an international commission that is independent, credible and objective is needed. at the same time, a mechanism is needed to ensure humanitarian access to gaza without harming israel's legitimate security interests. i believe that the european union must continue to work towards the implementation of the two-state solution. finally, i would like to appeal to all parties involved to exercise restraint to avoid escalating tensions in the region. full cooperation with the fact-finding mission and the continuation of negotiations on the peace process is also very important.
the european union is a constant promoter of humanitarian aid to civilians in any conflict-affected area. humanitarian aid to gaza must continue and we must not allow some conflicts, whatever their nature, to have repercussions on the security of the civilian population in this territory. at the same time, however, we must react swiftly and decisively when these humanitarian activities are discredited and used as a base for terrorist activities and arms smuggling in potential conflict zones. israel is an important partner of the european union in various areas of cooperation. we need to use this partnership to identify constructive ways in which the european union can make a positive contribution in this area. we need neither to defend nor to accuse, we need to find a solution that is valid for the long term.
in writing. – while the joint motion for a resolution on the 'flotilla case' and the gaza blockade is most welcome and deals with major developments and security risks for the middle east, i think that the document is still unbalanced with regard to the de facto situation. gaza is governed by the elected hamas administration and this should bring direct responsibility for hamas as a governing party and as a military force. hamas is labelled a 'terrorist organisation' by the eu, but the motion for a resolution abstains from naming hamas when it asks for all the attacks on israel to be stopped immediately. the perpetrator of these indiscriminate attacks on israeli civilians is hamas. the motion for a resolution mentions turkey and encourages the turkish government to contribute to the middle east peace process. yet there is no mention in the motion for a resolution of the aggressive stance of the turkish government in its new middle east policy. the turkish support for the ihh muslim fundamentalists and other sponsors of the flotilla and the worrying turkish rapprochement with iran are not contributing to reducing tension in the middle east.
in writing. the european union attaches great importance to respect for human rights, both within and beyond its borders. the 10th annual report of the european union on human rights in the world in 2008, prepared by the council and the commission, provides an overview of the activities of the european union institutions in the field of human rights inside and outside the union. i believe that both the commission and the council must do more to improve the european union's capacity to react swiftly to human rights violations in third countries, and that the promotion of human rights, one of the main objectives of the european union's common foreign and security policy (cfsp), as laid down in article 11 of the treaty on european union, should be strictly applied in the dialogues and relations of the eu institutions with any state in the world. the commission should encourage the member states of the european union, as well as third countries with which accession negotiations are under way, to sign and ratify all the fundamental conventions of the united nations and the council of europe in the field of human rights, as well as the optional protocols annexed thereto, and to cooperate within international human rights procedures and mechanisms.
in writing. – there are many cases in which family members of human rights defenders (spouses, children, parents) face human rights violations themselves, including killings, death threats, abductions and kidnappings, arbitrary arrest, defamation, job loss, and other actions of harassment and intimidation. these actions generate a climate of terror within their community, and impede on their legitimate work. support for their families must go beyond the delivery of visas in emergency situations. neither the short-term nor the long-term needs of their families have been sufficiently addressed. sometimes, the price paid by human rights defenders is very high. detention, sometimes murder, causes pain and survival problems for them and their families. we have the duty to help them. eu policies and instruments should substantially address the hardship placed on these families in their own countries. effective strategies should offer real support and assist these families in finding solutions to their problems, providing effective remedies, including moral support, shelter, help with their reintegration into society, job search, and emergency funds. this approach will discourage the cruel measures imposed on families in order to prevent defenders from continuing their work and improve the efficiency of the human rights campaigns.
tensions on the korean peninsula have risen dramatically since the south korean ship cheonan was sunk by a north korean-made torpedo, as confirmed by the international investigation team investigating the cause of the explosion. i believe that the european union must support the hexagonal negotiating format and maintain humanitarian aid programmes and communication channels with north korea. we need to encourage further talks on ending north korea's nuclear programme and seek to improve living conditions in that country. at the same time, the people's republic of china and the russian federation, as permanent members of the un security council and significant political and economic powers in the region, must work together to de-escalate tensions and promote peace and security on the korean peninsula.
i've never been to north korea, but i grew up in a system that was almost as cruel. i spent the first 24 years of my life in a communist country, and i would ask the honourable member - i know exactly what is going on there and i know exactly what i am talking about - not to be misled, and secondly, to take a more decisive action. but you and the union can only act decisively if you also call on the commission to act decisively within the union, since the communist past is still reappearing in many eastern european countries. if i think that there are language laws in the union, if i think that discrimination affects minorities, if i think that a citizenship law is introduced, if there is collective criminality in the union, then you can understand why we have no power, no voice and no credibility in the world, because they do not consider the union to be a credible body. we're not considered authentic people if we don't sweep our own house first.
madam president, the european union has repeatedly offered its commitment to eu membership for the western balkan countries, including bosnia and herzegovina, but, as we all know, the primary responsibility for the real reforms and for accession lies with the country, and it depends on its will and capacity to implement the copenhagen criteria and the commitments taken. we all know, and it has been said here, that at present progress in bosnia and herzegovina is limited but, at the same time, we know that the fragmentation of decision-making, of legislation, or the overlapping competences, is rooted to an important extent in the provisions of the dayton agreements, which it is true were necessary to stop the killings. responsibilities are shared between the international community, including the european union, and domestic authorities. i think that this is true more than in other countries in the balkans. we have been active in bosnia and herzegovina since 1995 with policies, human resources, energy and funds. we must support more, and more actively, the authorities and primarily the people of bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to make two comments on visa liberalisation. firstly, in relation to the supposed danger of exporting organised crime if visa requirements are eliminated, i would like to stress that this is not true. on the contrary, in those countries where there is no visa requirement there is less organised crime, because we basically eliminated organised crime which is related to visas and to trafficking in the countries where such a requirement exists. the second argument i would like to put to you is that people who travel to study, to visit, to make friends, to learn new things, change their vision when they return to their countries. they are more demanding of the authorities in their countries. they ask for more accountability and they are the people who can push for and who can implement and fulfil the reforms in the country. i have given two arguments in favour of visa liberalisation for bosnia and herzegovina, and i hope that this will happen during 2010.
the proposal to lift the visa regime for bosnia and herzegovina should encourage further progress in judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime and the strengthening of the administrative system. i hope that happens. i was very surprised in sarajevo to hear that civil society representatives were asking us not to support visa liberalization, because in doing so we are supporting the current politicians to get back to power. the european union must present a clear, realistic and motivating accession programme that will lead all the western balkan countries to viable regional cooperation and, therefore, to final reconciliation. the eu needs to propose a set of short-term objectives that bosnia can meet, so that citizens can see the progress made and are motivated to continue reform. such a system could be applied in all the western balkan states.
sarajevo and srebrenica, the union had only one answer. many people have said that we should be taking a different tone, and that is not the tone of economic and political sanctions, but the tone of what my colleague mr posselt has spoken about. we are more than a community of economic interests. culture, religion and education were all on the table. i can say one thing, and i want to encourage my colleagues to do one thing. then there will be peace in sarajevo, then bosnia and herzegovina will be a country of independent, free and happy people, that is if we, the union, lead by example. within the union, all national minorities are free to use their own language and language, provided they are not discriminated against and that they are granted territorial and cultural autonomy. the key to the future of bosnia and herzegovina is to give minorities in the union their right to self-determination.
the european community has initiated the necessary measures to increase flexibility, market opening and to ensure coherence in the field of civil aviation, both on the basis of bilateral and multilateral relations. as regards the eu-us air transport agreement, it is noted that a preliminary agreement was already concluded on 25 march 2010. this agreement provides for the full opening of markets and gives priority to cooperation on eu-us air traffic management systems, sesar and nextgen to ensure interoperability and compatibility and to contribute to reducing environmental impact. the eu-us agreement will be practically among the first agreements concluded under the lisbon treaty. furthermore, i would stress that all transfers of personal data from the eu and the member states, for security reasons, should be based on international agreements with the status of legislative acts and be in line with european data protection law. we regret that the emissions trading system regulation is not part of the preliminary agreement and in this regard we call for further negotiations with a view to the entry into force of the ets in 2012.
the european union needs a trans-european intermodal transport system that is sustainable and efficient, and the development of rail transport is a priority. we call on member states to provide greater support to rail transport, including by allocating the financial resources needed to maintain and modernise railway infrastructure and rolling stock. the process of liberalising rail transport has begun. however, the opening of rail transport markets should not be at the expense of the quality of rail transport services. the safety of rail transport and the respect of passenger rights are essential if it is to gain a larger market share in total land transport. human resources are essential to this and i therefore ask the commission to consider, in the next revision of the railway package, the inclusion of social clauses ensuring strong european standards for working conditions, so that the social security schemes in force at national level in the member states are implemented by all operators and infrastructure managers in the railway sector.
the debate on the state of management and planning of europe's watersheds in the current context is welcome. europe is going through a difficult socio-economic period and natural disasters are having an amplified impact on society at this time. it is clear that at present investment in river basin management projects cannot be undertaken by member states alone. like the countries affected by floods today, romania and bulgaria are countries affected by floods every year. only god has spared us this year. i would like the commission to draw up an action plan to help the member states to develop the river basins in the affected countries, as it did for the danube strategy. i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering allocating funds specifically for projects to improve the water catchment areas of both cross-border and inland rivers in order to prevent future flooding.
i would like to express my solidarity with the victims of the floods which have affected poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary. in romania, too, the level of the danube has risen sharply, threatening many localities, including those in the danube delta, with flooding. climate change is leading to desertification and intensifying extreme events such as storms, torrential rains and floods. the development of an effective european system for flood risk prevention and management is mandatory. under the specific european directive, member states are required to assess flood risks in watersheds by 2011 and to draw up flood maps by 2013. i ask the commission to ensure that flood reduction plans and strategies do not remain on paper. i also call on the commission to develop a common inland water policy that addresses economic and social development in european river basins, environmental protection, water quality, flood risk prevention and management in an integrated way.
i join those who have congratulated the rapporteur and all those who have worked on this report on the quality of their work. there is no doubt that fisheries enterprises play an important role in the european economy and investment in traditional fisheries enterprises is essential for the economic development of rural areas. i would like to point out, however, a few points which, in my view, have no place in this report. first, the fact that in aquaculture we encounter the same phenomena as in other fields in terms of the distribution of income along the food supply chain. producers in traditional businesses get prices that are incomparably lower than those in shops, which is an obstacle to the sustainable development of european aquaculture, which is the subject of today's debate. i think that this issue will have to be taken into account and it will have to be found in our future debates.
in writing. a strong aquaculture sector could ensure the development of coastal, peripheral and rural regions in the member states. at the same time, it would lead to the development of local production which is currently far below consumption, with massive imports from third countries being required to meet the ever-increasing demand. i believe that we need to support research and development efforts in this area and allocate appropriate resources to aquaculture projects to further develop the knowledge base needed to promote sustainable and competitive practices. special attention should also be paid to investment and support for enterprises in this sector. in this way, we will achieve the promotion of economic activity, employment and, at the same time, the respect of good environmental practices.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done on this report, which is extremely objective and thorough, without being rigid. i would also urge my colleagues to support this report, thus supporting the commission's provision that the validation of the tncs should be carried out until the completion of the operation in question - transhipment, landing, caging, harvesting - thus not only achieving a rapid validation, but also exercising a stricter control over these operations. unfortunately, i can't say that with the changes to dct regulations, our troubles are over. in 1992, iccat adopted the recommendation on the monitoring of bluefin tuna trade, which unfortunately has proved to be a tool of more than limited effectiveness. in 2007, iccat adopted the dct, a much more complex programme which, although a step forward, is not really a solution, as iccat is again overwhelmed by the situation, as the reality on the ground confirms. i therefore believe that in the future, the commission's support for the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i, an opportunity missed at the cites conference in march 2010, should become official community policy as the only and last resort to save this marine species from extinction.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleague mr romeva i rueda for his efforts in this report. but despite our efforts and international efforts during the past thirty-five years, stocks of bluefin tuna are now critically low. a large part of the reason is of course illegal fishing, more often than not by vessels which are registered to countries which lack the will or the resources to enforce international agreements. no amount of traceability measures or extra paperwork will address the problem of reducing fish stocks if so many vessels are still operating illegally and with impunity. the commission must therefore put pressure on the eu member states to end the practice which allows foreign vessels to register easily and operate under their flags. it is of no benefit to member states to turn a blind eye to illegal fishing. the threat to bluefin tuna and to the biodiversity of our oceans as a whole will continue to grow unless we address this crucial point.
i voted differently from my group on two amendments, amendments nos 1 and 2 tabled by the green group to our joint resolution. i supported these amendments because it is very important, in my view, in the context of the analysis of the summit results, to take full account of the human rights situation in russia. i think the brutal repression of the summit demonstration is a sad reminder that freedom of assembly is far from a reality in russia. i think it is necessary to remind the authorities of the russian federation that they must respect this fundamental political right. also, i think, we can't turn a blind eye when it comes to violations of the right to a fair trial. we must stress the need for judicial procedures free of any political influence.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in gaza, but i do not think that the text is entirely satisfactory. it is of course important that parliament's voice be heard in the context of the events of 31 may. there is clearly a need for an investigation with a credible international presence to shed light on the events of that day. it is also important that parliament takes an interest in the humanitarian situation in gaza, taking into account israel's legitimate security concerns. but i think it is contradictory to call for an investigation and at the same time to describe what happened as a violation of international law, as is the case in point 2. it is also problematic to speak of 'collective punishment' - that is the expression in recital c. if the european union is to play a role in the middle east, it is essential that it is perceived as a neutral mediator. with such qualifications, we will not advance, i think, in finding peace.
in writing. − i voted for the motion for a resolution on judicial training because i believe that we must support lawyers and the legal system, whose work is important for society as a whole. i welcome the development of a network of legal training institutions (not just judicial) throughout the european union, which are authorised to provide continuous training courses in international law, domestic law, comparative law. i believe that it is necessary to set up erasmus-type programmes, with european funding, for judicial authorities and for all those working in the field of law. such cross-border mobility can lead to the creation of channels of communication between participants and to the development of a higher european legal culture, strengthening the trust on which the system of mutual recognition of judgments at eu level is based. quality judicial training and the creation of a european legal culture can speed up legal proceedings in cross-border cases and thus contribute to improving the functioning of the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital in the european single market. businesses and citizens will thus have new advantages within the eu. i have signs that many romanian lawyers are waiting for the chance to participate in such european training and cross-border mobility programmes.
in writing. − fish is a healthy food, and we should do everything possible to promote a sustainable fish sector to provide it. this includes developing a legislative framework which helps the aquaculture sector to deliver a secure supply of high-quality, healthy food and better protection for the environment. over-fishing of wild stocks has devastating impacts on delicate coastal and river environments, as well as on local communities. aquaculture has the potential to address all these concerns – by reducing pressure on wild stocks and biodiversity, and by creating jobs in coastal and rural regions. as co-legislators, we must take the opportunity to shape future legislation in the right way. we should pay particular attention to animal welfare in any future legislation. high standards of animal welfare vastly improve the productivity of farmed fish – and therefore the competitiveness of the sector – as well as ensuring better product quality for consumers and a better product for the industry to market. whilst developing legislation to facilitate these aims, we must also ensure that imports are closely monitored and comply with the eu’s own high standards, to protect both our industry and consumers.
on behalf of the s&d group, i too would like to condemn this heinous crime against one of africa's most respected men for his courageous struggle for democracy and respect for human rights. the name of the ngo headed by mr floribert chebeya bahizire is defining for his work: 'the voice of the voiceless'. to them bahizire dedicated his life and, unfortunately, his death. arrested and harassed over the years, including for troubling the public by exposing corruption in the military, he met a bloody end. the barbarity of his murder speaks volumes about the human rights situation in congo, a country where acts of torture, ill-treatment, arbitrary detention, social violence and other brutal executions are on the rise. i therefore believe that european union diplomacy must insist that the congolese authorities ensure an independent, credible and transparent investigation leading to the identification and prosecution of those responsible. the congolese government is the first to be called upon to combat impunity that fosters human rights violations in a country where civil war is a conducive setting for massacres, mass rape and other atrocities. in this context, i believe that the un peacekeeping mission in the congo can play an effective role in monitoring the progress of the investigation.
i would like, first of all, to extend my condolences to the family of floribert chebeya bahizire. the murder of a respected human rights defender in the democratic republic of congo is unacceptable and must, as my colleagues have said, be condemned. i believe that an independent, credible and transparent investigation is needed to clarify the circumstances in which this act occurred and, in this context, i find the un association useful because, as the un special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions pointed out, there are indications that "suggest official responsibility for the assassination". i also want to say that this assassination is revealing of the existence of a trend, which is worrying in the democratic republic of congo in recent years, because there have been more human rights activists assassinated there and also journalists. the authorities in the democratic republic of congo must fight with determination against impunity.
the situation in nepal is worrying, as violence in that country has increased greatly in recent times. in order to consolidate the process of national reconciliation following the civil conflict that lasted ten years and which, by the time it ended in 2006, had claimed some 13 000 victims, the adoption of a new constitution is, of course, necessary. it will be able to provide a legal framework for the conduct of political life in nepal, if democracy and human rights are promoted. in this sense, i believe that the parties must negotiate, without preconditions, for a constituent assembly that will take things in this direction. as reports by international human rights organizations show, the judicial system also needs to be strengthened in order to resolve conflicts peacefully. last but not least, i would like to emphasize that political instability is having a negative impact on the social and economic situation in nepal, which is already one of the poorest countries in the world. as we all know, without stability there is no prosperity.
on behalf of the epp group. although the ten-year civil war ended in 2006, nepal's economic and social situation remains very difficult. without stability, nepal cannot develop like its neighbors, china and india, which are emerging economies. the alliance of 22 anti-maoist parties failed to meet the target of adopting a constitution by the may 28, 2010 deadline. in this regard, i welcome the decision to extend the mandate of the constituent assembly by one year. it is very important that nepal adopts a constitution that ensures the proper functioning of the rule of law and the respect of the freedoms of the citizens. finally, i would like to emphasise that the most important threats to nepal's stability are extremism and the use of violence to resolve political differences.
in addition to what my colleagues have said about the tensions and violence in this country, i also want to highlight one of the most painful features facing the nepalese reality: poverty. the population suffers from poor living conditions, exacerbated by political instability, which is affecting nepal's potential for economic growth. as mentioned here, this country is geographically situated between two of the fastest growing economies in the world, china and india, but nepal, because of the situation it faces, is not able to realize its potential. with a third of its population living below the poverty line and a sixth of its population undernourished, the highest illiteracy rate in south asia, facing an energy crisis and inflation, especially in food prices, nepal is not only a hotbed of tension but also a serious humanitarian problem. that is why i believe we must direct not only our political attention but also our practical support towards developing the nepalese economy and helping the nepalese people.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i join my colleagues in deploring the execution of 18 people in libya on 30 may 2010 and in calling for the abolition of capital punishment. libya uses the death penalty as a tool for curbing free expression and association in the country. documentation of such cases is made difficult by the government. however, human rights watch interviewed one prisoner who said that the authorities had commuted his death sentence at the last moment to life in prison. according to mr al-sharif, the people’s court convicted him and two other men of organising a political group which opposed the principles of the al-fateh revolution. the supreme court confirmed the death sentences but the supreme council for judicial authority spared the prisoners’ lives at the last moment in february 2002 after they had spent one hour blindfolded and bound to a wooden stake awaiting execution. according to mr al-sharif, one of the three men committed suicide in december 2004. reportedly, more than 200 people are currently on death row in libya. i call on the commission and the council to raise these issues as a priority in their dialogue with libya.
the death penalty is the most cruel and inhumane punishment possible, and libya is among the 12 countries that have already applied the death penalty in 2010, even though it is frowned upon by the un and most of the world's states. i believe that the european union has a duty to take on more firmly its mission of advocating for the abolition of the death penalty and, at the same time, it is our duty to intensify our pressure for the commutation of these sentences and for the respect of the rights of foreign nationals against whom the death penalty is used disproportionately, because they face the difficulty of having a translator, of contacting the diplomatic representatives of their governments, as well as of obtaining commutation of the sentence due to lack of financial means and of the family, who negotiate financial compensation, as is customary, for the forgiveness of the victim's family. in these circumstances, i believe that a strong signal must be sent to the libyan authorities to respect international standards of legal fairness and also to allow the un refugee agency to resume its work for the benefit of refugees and asylum seekers.
for us europeans, the death penalty is something absurd, because, as we know, it has been eliminated from our political culture, and what is happening in libya now is scandalous. it is all the more scandalous when we have to understand that this punishment is applied very often to people from outside the libyan area and the information about the recent execution of 18 people tells us that they are egyptians, nigerians, chadians. why is it so much worse for these people? because, unfortunately, their basic rights are not respected in the process and i am referring here to access to translators and also to consular assistance, which must be imposed in accordance with international standards. i would also like to say that we must discuss this next week, when we will have guests from libya as part of the maghreb delegation, and i think we must say these things emphatically in the context of our dialogue with that country.
i would first like to welcome the decision of the european council last week to give the green light to the opening of negotiations with iceland. today, moreover, in the foreign affairs committee of the parliament, my report on iceland's application to join the european union was voted by a huge majority. with this report, my colleagues have declared their support for the accession of this country to the union, while stressing the need to reach a common solution in areas such as fisheries or agriculture. we are convinced that iceland can rapidly build on the progress already made and adopt the acquis communautaire, becoming a new member of the european family. iceland can make an important contribution to the european union through its democratic tradition, its experience in environmental protection, and by anchoring european policies in the arctic. on the other hand, iceland will also have a lot to gain, and this is not just about the issue of economic stability, but also about greater influence internationally or increased influence in decision-making related to the internal market. we all know, on the other hand, that the opinion of the icelanders on the accession of their country to the european union is deeply divided. therefore, i believe that a public debate initiated by the icelandic government and supported, if necessary, by the european commission can help to crystallise the arguments for and against accession and ultimately lead to an informed decision by the icelandic citizens on accession. as you know, at the end of the negotiation process, iceland will hold a referendum to see if icelandic society will support the outcome of these talks between the european union and the country i've been talking about.
in writing. i welcome the council's decision to endorse the eu 2020 strategy in the form proposed by the commission. the new european strategy for jobs and growth will play a key role in reorienting policies to overcome the crisis. it will support the introduction of medium- and long-term reforms to ensure the sustainability of public finances, including through the reform of pension systems. in this respect, cooperation is needed, both at national and european level, to adopt measures in time to enable pension systems to function in the medium and long term. like the other member states, romania needs fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. the economic and financial crisis has exposed the problems of economic governance. we therefore need to reform this mechanism and better coordinate economic policies at european level. reforms to promote competitiveness, growth and employment are needed. these measures, as well as ensuring sound macroeconomic surveillance, will support the successful achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. we also need to ensure that the provisions of the stability and growth pact are respected.
in writing. the eu's economic governance system was the focus of today's discussion with the president of the european council, herman van rompuy. the implementation of safer measures to guarantee the security of the european economic area is supported by parliament and the commission, the only unknown factor in this equation being the will of the member states, which remains decisive. member states have a duty to maintain a balanced dialogue with the commission and to present national targets without delay, based on the specific national context. in this situation, of course, i also appeal to the romanian government, which is currently taking chaotic financial measures, without a concrete strategy and achievable goals, the population being the one who pays and will continue to pay dearly for these mistakes. the european financial system cannot be thought of as being separate from the international system, and the g20 meeting in toronto should provide an answer to that. unfortunately, it's very possible that the great powers will decide to go their separate ways.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy is an important document for the development of the european union. the adoption of the european targets can be seen as the starting point for the implementation of the strategy. but we must not forget that we are in an economic and financial crisis. the continuation of the crisis puts at risk the achievement of national and, by implication, european objectives. the mandatory condition for achieving the eu 2020 targets is to get out of the crisis. the measures needed for economic governance to benefit the eu need to be legislated and implemented urgently. it is absolutely urgent that an agreement be reached between member states to ensure a fair approach to crisis management. it is not normal that, given the existence of similar situations with regard to the stability pact, different measures should apply.
in writing. the european council of 17 june 2010 adopted five main objectives for growth and employment: an employment rate of 75% for the population aged 20-64; improved conditions for research and development and the use of 3% of gdp for this sector; a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990; a 20% increase in energy efficiency; 20% of energy consumed to come from renewable sources; a reduction in school dropouts and higher education graduation rates; and poverty reduction. some of these objectives were set by the lisbon strategy in 2000, but the results achieved so far are still far from expectations. in addition, the economic and financial crisis has led to a dramatic increase in unemployment, jeopardising the sustainability of pension systems already dependent on demographic change, thus putting the elderly and young population at risk of poverty. i believe that the digital agenda, the climate change agenda, investment in transport and energy infrastructure and agricultural development should be the main elements of the eu2020 strategy, to be supported by cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and the future financial perspective.
the two regulations on the rights of passengers travelling by bus and coach, and those travelling by sea and inland waterways, complement the legal framework defining and protecting passenger rights. in the airline industry, such regulations already exist, but even under these conditions many passengers are unaware of their rights and do not complain when they are not respected. that is why it is absolutely necessary that this type of regulation exists for all types of transport. the regulations we are discussing today lay down liability for death or injury to passengers, the rights of persons with reduced mobility, compensation and assistance in the event of cancellation or delay, and contain clear provisions on the lodging of complaints and possible remedies. we welcome the agreement reached on shipping, but we consider that defining and respecting the rights of disabled people travelling by bus and coach is a must for the inclusion of all citizens in society.
the negotiations of these two reports were marked by the council's attempts to limit their scope and objectives, as well as by pressure from carriers facing the effects of the economic crisis. both rapporteurs have successfully defended the firm position of parliament. what is needed is modern, high-quality passenger transport. passengers must be assured of the best possible conditions of transport and, in the event of a deficiency, must receive appropriate compensation. carriers must make the necessary efforts to ensure coordinated european transport both between member states and between modes of transport. the volcanic ash crisis has demonstrated that the field is still far from what passengers need. carriers must be aware that they must ensure quality at the same time as the schedule is being ensured. passengers must be informed of their rights so that they can act with knowledge of the facts when they are infringed.
the adoption of the directive on the framework for the deployment of intelligent transport systems in road transport and for interfaces with other modes of transport is an important step towards increasing safety in the transport sector. i would like to thank the whole team of rapporteurs for extending the scope of the directive to road transport by including interfaces with other modes of transport. intelligent transport systems will thus be able to be used for passengers, vehicles and infrastructure and their interaction in the field of road transport, including urban transport and interfaces with other modes of transport. the european parliament has called for a minimum level of applications and services for intelligent transport systems and for strict provisions on the protection of personal data since the first reading. the directive provides for four priority areas in which the commission is to define common specifications and standards for the implementation and use of intelligent transport systems. the commission has committed to the speedy adoption of specifications, within a well-established timetable, as follows: 2014 for the provision of information services on multimodal travel at european level; 2013 for the provision of real-time traffic information services at european level; 2012 for the provision of road safety-related minimum universal traffic information free of charge; 2012 for the harmonised provision of an interoperable eu-wide ecall system; 2012 and 2013 for the provision of information and reservation services respectively on safe parking spaces for trucks. the adoption of this directive was delayed as a result of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the provisions on comitology. the specifications referred to above will therefore be adopted by the commission by means of delegated acts. i believe that we are only at the beginning of the road towards the implementation of intelligent transport systems and we hope that both the commission and the member states will allocate the necessary financial resources to the implementation of these systems.
the establishment of a single framework for the coordinated use of intelligent transport systems is an important step in the modernisation of the transport sector and obliges member states to ensure the implementation and coordination of its in an interoperable manner. as rapporteur on the european rail freight corridors, i believe that interoperable its systems are absolutely necessary on the railway, especially in terms of traffic management. for this reason, there is a need for mutual recognition of national approvals and specifications for equipment and software, and for compliance with the rtms deployment schedule. the fact that member states have the possibility to adapt to the new requirements by upgrading their existing systems is a positive thing and avoids the creation of geographical discontinuities.
the directive on reporting formalities for ships entering and leaving the ports of the member states provides for simplification of customs formalities, wider use of electronic data exchange and the introduction of e-maritime systems, the creation of a single administrative desk and simplified rules for dangerous goods. the implementation of this directive requires a good level of cooperation between the different competent authorities. the commission shall report to parliament by 31 december 2011 at the latest on the extension of the scope of the simplifications introduced by this directive to inland waterway transport. to this end, the commission will assess the compatibility of the river information system with safeseanet, the electronic data exchange platform used for the implementation of this directive. also, to ensure more effective communication, the report recommends by amendment 9 the use of rule 14 of the solas convention, which provides for the use of english as the working language.
transport is an essential component of the european union's economy. unfortunately, the field is very little addressed in the eu 2020 strategy, although it is a strong generator of labour and sustainable economic growth. the report by mathieu grosch includes bold ideas and useful approaches to improve the sector during this period. european citizens are the main beneficiaries of the opening up of markets in all transport sectors. the commission and the member states need to reassess long-term investment plans, particularly in the railway sector, to achieve interoperability for example, which i consider to be a priority for the european union in the near future. member states and the commission need to make sustained efforts to implement and extend ertms, rail net europe and european rail freight corridors, major projects that require harmonisation and additional funding. expanded intermodality is an effective way to reduce congestion and carbon dioxide emissions. sustainable transport, in particular by rail, inland waterways and maritime transport, must be promoted by all means. inland waterway transport is still fragmented; therefore, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between the competent institutions in all states where this mode of transport is possible. the european union has a huge untapped potential, particularly in the rhine-main-danube axis. the future danube strategy must include this aspect. the development of intelligent transport modes and their large-scale deployment is necessary. the european commission should direct specific research funding, a priority area of the eu 2020 strategy, towards expanding the applicability of smart and clean technologies in all transport sectors.
the report on a sustainable future for transport contains parliament's recommendations for both the forthcoming white paper on sustainable transport in the european union and the future ten-t. given the high population density of the european union, it is essential to further develop rail and sea transport. a european strategy for the development of inland waterway transport, as well as the development of rail freight corridors and high-speed railways to connect all european capitals and major cities, must become a priority for the european union. i hope that the future ten-t network will make greater use of the black sea exit and the rhine-main-danube corridor. the opening up of transport markets should be done for the benefit of consumers only and should be accompanied by long-term planning of infrastructure investments and enhanced technical interoperability. funding for the development of the european transport system should take into account transport safety and social, economic and territorial cohesion.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr iturgaiz, on his work on this report. the treaty of lisbon reaffirmed the fundamental right of citizens of the european union to petition the european parliament. however, in order to be dealt with, such petitions must fall exclusively within one of the union's fields of activity. i therefore requested, by means of an amendment, that the future interactive portal for petitions should describe in as much detail as possible the union's responsibilities in various areas. only in this way will it be possible to eliminate the confusion between community and national competences and to reduce the number of petitions declared inadmissible. i believe that in future the commission must constantly cooperate with the european ombudsman to avoid the preparation of special reports such as the one in the case of complaint 676 in 2008.
first of all, i would like to express my sympathy to those suffering from the floods in romania. twenty-three people lost their lives and over 18,000 were evacuated. 530 communities in 37 counties, nearly 9,000 homes and 60,000 hectares of arable land, as well as 41 national roads, have been affected, and the damage continues to grow every day. at the moment, the construction of a 4.5 km-long dam at galati to protect the port city from the danube's overflow is a priority. if the dam fails, it will be a disaster: over 8,000 people will be affected, as well as the most important economic agents in galatia. the romanian government announced that it will submit the documentation for access to the european union solidarity fund by 15 july. i call on the european commission, after an accurate assessment of the damage, to make available resources from this fund to romania as soon as possible.
as you know, romania has been suffering from floods for over a week, which have led to the death of 23 people and the destruction of thousands of homes. in the current circumstances, romania needs the financial support of the european community from the solidarity fund, all the more so since the government in bucharest has proved incapable of managing the disaster, taking all the necessary measures and reducing the damage. i would like to appeal, mr president, for solidarity with those affected by the recent floods in romania. in this connection, i also ask the european parliament to support the activation of the european union solidarity fund and the allocation of the amount deemed appropriate for the damage caused. my country, mr. president, needs this support as soon as possible.
i come before you today to express more than my amazement or regret that, even though we are in the 21st century, in certain parts of europe, across from freedom of speech and the press, there are still practices that throw us straight back to the time of the inquisition. it is incomprehensible to me how, although freedom of speech is a constitutional right in the european union, there are still member states for which both their own constitution and european regulations on the right to freedom of expression are categorized as vulnerable points of national security. remember, the press is responsible for informing the public about all aspects of the community it reflects, and as long as it does not reveal documents classified as top secret, it cannot be said that it is a threat to the security of the state. it would be absurd for governments to be able to preemptively use an unfounded explanation to silence the press directly or, through rigid laws, to impose a fear-based self-censorship on it. after all, a country whose government becomes the sole source of information for the press, i don't think it can be called a free country and therefore european.
the eu is facing a major challenge in the accession of the countries of central and eastern europe and the enlargement process to the western balkans. there's a lot of talk about economic issues. now, i want to draw your attention to a feature that we often forget. these countries have a significant number of national minority communities. they did not immigrate from somewhere, but for historical reasons, because of frequent border changes, they came under the jurisdiction of another state. in many cases, countries outside the union regulate the linguistic rights of minorities more generously than some member states. the reason is that these countries have realized that it is in the national interest for minorities to feel good in their homeland. in this area, some eu member states may also have something to learn from the candidate countries. all european citizens deserve equal respect and treatment, regardless of their nationality, citizenship or mother tongue.
i want to express my condolences to the families of the citizens who lost their lives in the floods in romania. i assure all those who have suffered from these terrible events that we are and will be with them. unfortunately, the lack of the necessary prevention infrastructure and the poor preparation of the romanian authorities, despite similar situations that have occurred in the past, have led to the causation of material damage and, what is more sad, to the loss of human lives. as i requested in the debate at the last part-session, i again ask the commission to come forward with an urgent proposal for measures to improve the water catchment areas of internal and transfrontier rivers in the member states, and a set of financial measures to carry out these critical investments so that such situations do not arise in the future. i would like to thank the romanian people in france, belgium, austria and estonia for their rapid response to help romania following the activation of the community civil protection mechanism.
the severe floods of recent weeks have affected large areas of romania. unfortunately, there are also 23 fatalities, over 18,000 people evacuated, and huge property damage, including thousands of homes damaged; and, very seriously, the flood wave continues. the romanian government is coordinating the battle with the waters, but has also moved to assess the losses, expressing its interest in accessing the union solidarity fund. the amount romania will be able to access will, of course, only cover part of the total cost of reconstruction, but it will be an important signal for citizens who have lost in a very short time everything they have accumulated in a lifetime. the union's aid will express the cohesion of europeans in the face of disasters of all kinds, especially in the context of the crisis. that is why i ask the european commission and my colleagues to show solidarity with romania and to approve this financial aid as soon as the authorities have submitted the damage situation and the reconstruction plans.
between the two world wars, romania, hungary, italy, they had dictatorial regimes, fascist regimes, that generated violence domestically and internationally. today, italy is facing the media monopoly of prime minister silvio berlusconi. in hungary, the orban government, whose party belongs to a political group in the european parliament, is aiming for a long-term monopoly on public broadcasting. in romania, president traian basescu, backed by a party in the same political group in the european parliament, declares the media a national security vulnerability. i want to believe that our union has learned all the lessons of the past and will oppose the explicit violation of some of the founding acts and fundamental values of the european union.
at eu level, unemployment among young people under 25 has exceeded the 5 million mark, representing a rate of almost 20%. because of the difficult economic situation, young people now face even greater difficulties in finding decent work. i therefore believe that member states must promote the active integration of young people into society and the labour market, but this is not possible without a sound and quality education. the potential of young people is an under-utilized resource. against the background of demographic change, they can actively contribute to strengthening social protection systems. finally, i would like to draw attention to the situation of young people in rural areas. statistics show that they are disadvantaged. they have a harder time finding a job than those in urban areas.
in writing. the worryingly high rate of youth unemployment - double the overall share of unemployed in the eu - reflects the difficulty of young people to get into employment, a trend dramatically amplified by the recession. disproportionately affected by the economic crisis, the younger generation is at risk of social exclusion. over 5.5 million unemployed young europeans face poverty and difficulties in leaving school. young people are forced to accept precarious jobs with low wages and low social security, which affects their health and safety at work. a high degree of vulnerability is found in rural areas, where in countries such as romania, poverty, unemployment, early labour and school dropouts are destroying the destinies of many children and young people. alongside the strategies for economic recovery and job creation, adapting the education process to avoid unemployment on the job market, combating undeclared work and exploiting young people, i believe that a european youth guarantee is needed to ensure that every young person is entitled to a job or a combination of work and further training after four months of unemployment.
in writing. the economic downturn has caused a massive increase in youth unemployment, one of europe's most pressing problems. today, more than 5.5 million young people under 25 are unemployed, representing 21.4 percent - twice the overall unemployment rate. previous crises have shown that young people are the hardest hit because they are the last to be hired and, in many cases, the first to be fired. many young people, particularly in southern europe, have short-term contracts, which means they are easily dismissed in times of crisis. the european commission must increase funding for the european social fund, allocate at least 10% of this fund to projects for young people and simplify access to this fund. i believe that the most important issues that can be addressed at eu level to help young people are: the european charter for the quality of traineeships, which will ensure that where practical experience is incorporated into education systems, certain conditions are met, and the introduction of a european youth guarantee, which will ensure that every young person in the eu is offered a job after a maximum of 4 months of unemployment.
in writing. youth is the future of europe, but also one of the most vulnerable groups in society, especially in the current economic and financial crisis. in southern and eastern europe, the youth unemployment rate is close to 30%. young people need to benefit from greater opportunities in education and employment, improved social inclusion mechanisms and active participation in society. to help achieve a 'europe for the young' in the labour market, member states must: - ensure a coherent transition from education to the labour market by promoting and supporting measures such as paid traineeships and vocational guidance; - to ensure access for young people and young mothers to the labour market and to social protection mechanisms; - encourage employers to offer young people stable and long-term jobs and pay that reflects their level of effort and their professional and intellectual abilities; - protect young people against contracts containing clauses that place them in a precarious position vis-à-vis the employer. it is time to promote young people and to ensure that they have a truly european, civilized environment in which to work and live.
in writing. – effective management of biowaste can bring many environmental benefits, such as improved soil quality and the production of renewable energy in the form of biogas. so i support measures which will increase and improve the collection and treatment of biowaste. however, the nature of mandatory collection systems and how collection targets are calculated will be crucial. many smallholdings in romania already recycle biowaste, even though this would not be officially recognised under a collection system because it never enters the official waste stream. so any future directive and collection targets for biowaste must be flexible enough to allow for significant national and regional differences.
the importance of the baltic sea strategy lies in the fact that it is both an integrated framework for addressing the challenges and opportunities in the region and a pilot project for future macro-regional strategies. for this reason, its success can be a model for how future strategies, and in particular the danube strategy, can be implemented. i believe that the policies and programmes of the european union are of significant importance to the region and will be key elements of the strategy. to this end, it is very important that the participating member states use all the funds made available to them for this programming period. i would also like to stress that the emphasis on the specificity of the regions could lead to a much more efficient use of community funds and to the creation of added value at regional level.
in writing. given that there are important differences in the economic and innovation landscape in the baltic sea basin, and that both the potential of highly developed regions needs to be increased and inequalities reduced in order to create a highly competitive space, which is indispensable in the context of an ageing population, i strongly believe that the inclusion of policies that harness the creative potential and experience of older people can help stabilise this category within the european union population. i also welcome the contribution of the future strategy to strengthening cooperation between states and regions at macro-regional level and to the development of new joint strategies for action, with the aim of contributing to the creation of a model of cross-border cooperation in europe that can lead to strengthening the region's attractiveness at european and international level. i strongly believe that the establishment of a baltic sea environmental observatory, an alarm system in the event of accidents and serious cross-border pollution, and a joint task force for these situations is vital.
first of all, i want to congratulate the rapporteur. it's a report as important as it is well done. the role of regional policy in mitigating and combating the economic and financial crisis is undeniable. regional development and economic, social and territorial cohesion are also key to increasing the eu's economic competitiveness and meeting the eu 2020 objectives. in the context of the current crisis, i believe it is absolutely necessary to simplify the procedures for using the structural and cohesion funds and to extend the eligible costs in order to contribute even more effectively to the objectives of the labour market and social inclusion. i continue to support employment in key sectors of the economy and to ensure that economic, social and territorial cohesion is maintained as a priority for the european union. this is how we will achieve smart and sustainable economic growth for europe's countries and regions.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs kratsa on the preparation of this report. throughout the union, member state governments are in the process of implementing tough measures to revive the national economy. in addition to the austerity measures adopted, i believe that we need to stimulate investment from european funds. in the context of overcoming the crisis, the second objective of cohesion policy is particularly important for increasing the competitiveness of european regions and the employment capacity. all regions in romania are still part of the first objective of regional policy, namely convergence. for my country, a viable solution to the crisis is to have access to as much european funds as possible, and local administrations are encouraged to carry out as many projects as possible with european money.
i think we should appreciate the extraordinary efforts made by the spanish presidency during this extremely difficult period. a major achievement is the creation of the european financial stabilisation mechanism, which provides financial support to states in exceptional situations, up to a limit of eur 60 billion. on the external front, the spanish presidency achieved positive results from the high-level meetings held, in particular with latin america. in concrete terms, the reopening of negotiations for the eu-mercosur association agreement would create a free trade area for 750 million people. however, a thorough impact assessment of this agreement is needed because, as commissioner cioloş stated, the agreement could have a negative impact on european farmers due to increased imports of agricultural products.
in writing. – recently, one of the commission’s spokespersons publicly regretted the way the romanian parliament had amended the law on the functioning of the national agency for integrity. however, the romanian parliament was implementing a decision taken by the constitutional court, declaring unconstitutional some of the articles of the initial law. the fact that the romanian government – motivated by internal politics – has not reacted and that the commission probably considers it tolerable to combat corruption in romania using means that go beyond the law of the land does not make those remarks acceptable, because, in fact, they question the constitution, the actions of the national parliament and the sovereignty of a member state and are, therefore, a matter of principle and not of political opportunity! besides, if the romanians are ‘corrupt’, who was it who ‘corrupted’ them?
in writing. the spanish presidency of the european union has committed itself to the rapid and full implementation of the provisions of the lisbon treaty. it has established a new institutional balance, giving increased powers to the european parliament and national parliaments and a european dimension to respect for fundamental rights. during the spanish presidency of the eu, important steps were taken in the area of the implementation of the citizens' initiative, in the area of the advisory opinions to be submitted by national parliaments under the additional protocols to the lisbon treaty, in the area of the new rules on the delegation of executive powers to the commission, and in the area of the external action service. we welcome the conclusion of the us-eu opensky agreement, which covers 60% of international passenger traffic, and the agreements on common rules in the field of civil aviation and air safety between the eu and canada. i also wish to welcome the progress on the eu-mercosur cooperation agreement. during the spanish presidency, however, the european union also faced an alarming increase in unemployment, following the economic and financial crisis that began in 2008. i therefore believe that reducing unemployment and ensuring sustainable economic growth should remain the top priority for the belgian eu presidency as well.
president of the council. - the proposal for a regulation (com (91) 0402 - c3-0310/91) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (91) 0402 - c3-0310/91); in the context of the art of rotation, i would of course like to thank the spanish presidency - zapatero was here just now. i have the honour of being the first belgian to witness the presence. we shall try to fill the rotating presidency with enthusiasm and with a lot of belgian conviction. we shall now be putting the finishing touches to a question which has been prepared under the swedish and spanish presidencies. parliament has clearly played its part in this. there was the decision of 11 february 2010 to reject the interim agreement. the new agreement was approved on 28 june 2010. it is indeed a sign of a europe that is active that we have achieved a result in this way, in consultation between all the institutions. i shall not go into the many improvements. it's already happened. i will just touch on three basic reinforcements. it is important that there are effective remedies for everyone to see if the correction, deletion or blocking of data is applied. article 18 is a good article. secondly, article 12 is an improvement. i am happy to admit that it is obvious that there are independent auditors monitoring and that this is a positive adjustment at the request of parliament, so that - also with the clarifications and recommendations that have been added - the way in which the day-to-day monitoring of the extraction of swift data will take place is a positive reinforcement. thirdly, i am very pleased that it is a european solution and that europol is playing a role. it's a methodology we have to adopt. we must further strengthen our own institutions. we have to have faith. europol has experience with data protection rules and we must assume that this was a good choice. we must also say that the tftp has already produced important results and we must therefore continue to stand up for the safety of our citizens. the fight against terrorism is necessary. we have to take care of that. the commission has already handed over 1 500 files in this way. i think we must continue along this line, because we have committed ourselves as the council not only to rely on our partners, not only to fall back on the american system, but also to take steps within europe to move forward and to develop our own system, a european system. the steps to be taken after one year, three years and, if necessary, five years have been set out by the rapporteur and are included in the draft council decision. so, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure the safety of our citizens to the fullest. we must take responsibility in this area and we must do so in a good balance with data protection. we must also do so with the commitment to build up our protection mechanisms. i thank you in advance for the support you will, i hope, give to this important step, to this important intervention by the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am really glad to be back in the plenary today on the occasion of this debate. i am especially happy that we have achieved, as the rapporteur and the president said, good cooperation between the three institutions for a text that i hope you will approve later this week. this has only been possible because of the close cooperation we have had: all the institutions, the rapporteur, the political group, the committee, and outside representatives of the group. i would like to thank all of you wholeheartedly. i am very satisfied that the agreement we signed on 28 june gives us a new base and a new start for eu-us cooperation. i am delighted that the structures and the procedures have worked well – not without difficulty but they have worked well – and it has allowed us in record time to negotiate an agreement which ensures good high-level protection of personal data, whilst maintaining a counter-terrorist programme that helps to save lives in europe and in the us and beyond. the agreement for which i ask your consent this week is considerably different from the interim agreement that you rejected in february. let me just mention a few points. it empowers a european public authority, namely europol, to verify that each and every request is tailored as narrowly as possible in order to minimise the amount of data requested. it takes account of parliament’s call for a twin-track approach, holding out the prospect of an eu mechanism in the medium term allowing for extraction of data on european soil and for a more targeted transfer of data. the rapporteur laid out the provisions that we will take. immediately after the vote i will begin a study to consider the possible introduction of a european system. this system will be the basis for a full impact assessment taking into account the legal, technical, economic and other aspects of a future european tftp mechanism. the agreement also includes significant data protection when it comes to transparency, rights of access, rectification, erasure and redress. it allows the commission to appoint a person who will monitor the day-to-day extraction of data from the tftp database and who will be empowered to query and even block searches. this person will be on the premises where the us analysts are working and will have full access to the tftp searches to ensure permanent monitoring. this is a major achievement. moreover, the agreement empowers the eu to undertake regular and detailed reviews of the tftp. the first such review will take place six months after the entry into force of the agreement. the review team will include data protection experts and an expert with a judicial background and they will be able to do random checks. many of these changes are the direct results of discussions that i have had with the european parliament rapporteurs – both of them, and i would like to thank them both – and other key members of the political groups. this is indeed an achievement of europe: the council, parliament and the commission. another important point here, which the president referred to, is that the terrorist finance tracking program will help to make our lives safer. member states have confirmed the enormous value of this information derived from the tftp which the us authorities share with us. we also know that since the start of this year leads on known suspects have gone cold because eu-stored tftp data have not been transferred to the us for the last six months. this has been a serious situation and i am relieved that we are now closing this security gap. the london bombings took place exactly five years ago. this sad anniversary makes us remember the victims and their families and we wish that this tragedy had never happened and that it will never happen again. we must do our best to prevent future attacks and this agreement is one important tool in the fight to prevent horrible attacks like this one. for all these reasons i would ask you to give your consent to the agreement on thursday. i am confident that most of you will share the opinion of the rapporteur and acknowledge the many important improvements that have been made in this agreement. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by congratulating my colleague alexander alvaro on today’s result. i know that he has been working very hard to achieve what we have today. let me also thank jeanine hennis-plasschaert for her hard work on this difficult dossier while she was a member of this house. the text of this agreement is not perfect. however, in the months between today and february, when we rejected the first version, parliament has shown itself to be a reliable and responsible player. we have been constructive from the start. it has never been our goal to obstruct the whole process for no reason, because combating terrorism is as important for us as it is for our american partners, but at the same time we wish to stick to our own values and principles. so let us vote on this new agreement and let us focus on the future and make sure that both the commission and the council live up to their respective promises as enshrined in the agreement or attached to the agreement, because our ultimate goal remains a durable and legally sound european solution. we promised our citizens extraction of data by the eu on european soil – a promise that we have to keep.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr alvaro, and to state from the outset that i support the adoption of the eu-us agreement on the transfer of banking data for the purpose of combating terrorism. the new version of the agreement ensures better protection of the rights of european citizens. european bank customers will now be able to obtain information on how their personal banking data is used. i think europol will have a very important role, as it will check whether the suspicion of terrorism of a banking client is justified or not, and the appointment by the european commission of a person who will oversee the daily extraction of data will strengthen the role of the european union. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we must maintain a balance between the responsibility to ensure the safety of citizens and the protection of personal data.
in writing. − the paris convention on international exhibitions regulates the frequency, quality and procedures of international exhibitions falling within its scope. since the paris convention covers matters falling within the scope of the customs legislation of the european union and the european union cannot itself accede to the paris convention, as only a sovereign state can be a party to it, a member state wishing to accede to the convention needs the authorisation of the european union. we voted for this report so that the three member states which have not yet joined can join the paris convention.
in writing. − the european union is a signatory to the barcelona convention for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution and has an obligation to promote integrated coastal zone management, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological interest and the rational use of natural resources. the text of this protocol contains provisions relating to economic activities, construction, tourism, fisheries, aquaculture and maritime activities in the coastal areas of the mediterranean. through its mechanisms, the protocol contributes to improving coordination of actions for the management of coastal areas between national, regional and local authorities. i voted in favour of this report because it includes objectives and principles for good coastal management and promotes the sustainable use of natural resources through the use of monitoring tools.
in writing. − the coastal areas of the mediterranean sea continue to be subject to severe environmental pressures and a marked degradation of coastal resources. in the mediterranean area, urban expansion is intense, leading to a gradual loss of natural areas and biodiversity, as well as increased competition for water resources. the problems of coastal erosion and low-lying coastal flooding are exacerbated by urban encroachment in near-shore and flood-prone areas. factors likely to aggravate the pressures include projected population growth concentrated in urban coastal areas, a (nearly) doubling of tourist flows and even greater transport development. nearly 50% of the coastline could become built-up area by 2025, up from 40% in 2000. moreover, the mediterranean basin is one of the most vulnerable areas to the impact of climate change. the protocol provides a framework for stimulating a more concerted and integrated approach, which is needed to address these problems more effectively and achieve a more sustainable development of the coastal areas of the mediterranean sea. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and iceland and norway on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, with a view to tackling terrorism and cross-border crime. this decision lays out the necessary administrative and technical provisions for the automated exchange of dna data, fingerprint data and vehicle registration data. with the freedoms granted by the schengen area, it is also necessary to extend the tools available to combat cross-border crime and terrorism to those schengen members not within the eu. i support this agreement, as it will strengthen the fight against terrorist and criminal threats within the schengen area. it should be recalled that the security of the schengen area will be further strengthened through the full implementation of the sis ii system. the commission should exert all efforts to end the continuing delays with sis ii.
in writing. − i voted to support the claeys report on the arrangement between the eu, and switzerland and liechtenstein on the modalities of their participation in frontex. the important task that frontex provides in coordinating cooperation between member states and non-eu schengen members in the field of border management can only be strengthened with the participation of switzerland and liechtenstein. it should be recalled that the security of the schengen area will be further strengthened through the full implementation of the sis ii system. the commission should exert all efforts to end the continuing delays with sis ii.
in writing. − the european community has learned a lesson from the greek experience and the commission's initiative to regulate and empower eurostat will prevent similar situations from occurring in the future. i therefore believe that the commission's proposals, as amended by parliament, must be put into practice as soon as possible in order to be able to take immediate action in the event of suspicions of false statistical reporting by any member state. the european union cannot afford to gamble with its credibility or position in the financial markets, because it is perceived as a whole and the blame becomes shared, even though it belongs to one state. the idea of making eurostat an audit institution was rejected five years ago. there is no point in thinking about the 'what if' system, but it is relevant that at this moment the proposal has every chance of being put into practice. accurate and reliable statistical data are vital for the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. moreover, the rethinking of eurostat's tasks can only result in an increase in the level of trust between the member states of the european union and even in the credibility of each of them.
in writing. − the quality of statistical data is particularly important during this period, given the need to respond rapidly to any potential economic alarm signals. the precedent being known, no further arguments are needed. statistical data are also a useful tool in all sectors where the european union has competence, being indispensable for decision-making in the short, medium and long term. the better the quality of these statistics, the better the decisions made will be able to meet the challenges facing the member states and the european union as a whole.
in writing. − the european union and its member states are facing a major financial, economic and social crisis and must make a major effort to ensure that europe has as many jobs and as high a level of employment as possible. to overcome this crisis, the union must step up its efforts and invest in skills, vocational training and sustainable job creation. the objective of the eu 2020 strategy should be to effectively launch a comprehensive european employment initiative, for example by strengthening activation systems, in particular for low-skilled people, through personalised counselling, intensive skills/re-skilling and upskilling of workers, apprentices, job subsidies and grants for self-employment and business start-ups. these measures may be financed through the european social fund payments committee. rapid intervention is required when jobs are effectively being eliminated, not least to reduce the risk of people being excluded from the labour market. the measures are necessary given that the unemployment rate in the eu-27 increased in 2009 from 8% to 9,6%.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider regional competitiveness and employment to be an essential element of cohesion policy, given the current financial crisis which has slowed down the growth process. it is now important to keep in mind the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy in order to identify and implement new elements aimed at economic growth and strengthening the eu's social and territorial cohesion. territorial cohesion contributes to increasing the competitiveness of the different regions, so that they become as attractive as possible. it also ensures the best conditions for entrepreneurship and the development of smes. a key role of this report is also to take advantage of measures to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy programmes. the aim is to mobilise resources and instruments for the provision of financial support at local and regional level. this will take into account both the current needs arising from the current economic situation, namely the need to find a real-time response, and the identification of long-term measures. structural programmes must be implemented not as safeguards for economic survival but as objectives for sustainable development in the future.
in writing. − transport is characterised by its multi-functionality, with direct influences on the economic, social and territorial sectors. it is an important factor in the development of the european union and its regions, and is an essential component of the european economy. the transport industry generates around 7% of the union's gross domestic product and over 5% of total employment. at the same time, transport offers citizens access to many of their freedoms, such as the freedom to work and live in different parts of the world, the freedom to trade and to establish personal contacts. i voted in favour of this report because i support the aim of european transport policies, namely the establishment of a sustainable transport system that meets all the economic, social and environmental needs of citizens and encourages the achievement of an inclusive society and a fully integrated and competitive europe.
in writing. − decarbonizing transport is a significant policy objective that needs to be pursued more intensively in the future, as the adverse health and environmental effects of transport are a major challenge, especially in efforts to combat climate change. for such decarbonisation to contribute to a significant reduction in exhaust gas and noise emissions and to reduce traffic jams, two conditions must be met: the internalisation of external costs must cover all transport modes, and the revenues generated must be used to increase the sustainability of the infrastructure. the effects of the financial and economic crisis on the transport sector should not be overlooked, as the sector has reacted very sensitively to the crisis. i believe that this crisis should be seen as an opportunity to provide specific support to the transport sector in the future by encouraging investment. they should not only be quick aid, but also contribute to improving environmental and safety performance, creating new green jobs, by developing both national and european policy instruments. the commission and the member states should continue to exchange good practices (e.g. in the framework of the covenant of mayors, the civitas initiative, etc.) which give communities the chance to learn from the experience of other european citizens.
in writing. - i voted for the grosch report on a sustainable future for transport because i believe its recommendations should be reflected in the forthcoming white paper on the development of trans-european transport. the transport sector is a vital sector, both for the eu's economic development and competitiveness and for the eu's economic and social cohesion. unfortunately, however, the financial resources allocated to this sector are insufficient. the ten-t budget for 2007-13 is only €8.013 billion, and the sums allocated to transport through cohesion policy represent only 11% of the total budget allocated to this policy. i call for the eu to allocate additional financial resources to the development of the trans-european transport system and its integration with the transport systems of the union's neighbouring countries. that's why i voted against amendment 6. this amendment was intended to replace the creation of a transport fund with more resources than those already included in the eu budget with a mechanism for coordinating the use of the different existing sources of transport funding. it is clear that the eu needs to ensure better coordination of existing sources of finance for the transport sector, but it is also imperative to create new instruments for financing transport infrastructure development work.
in writing. − promoting access to the labour market and quality in jobs have been key priorities of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and the european pact for youth, and these objectives must be maintained through sustained efforts by both the member states and the european commission. the own-initiative report voted on today contains a number of provisions which underline the need for member states to step up their efforts to develop coherent labour supply and demand-focused policies that address both the quantity and quality of employment, thus helping to promote young people's access to the labour market.
in writing. − almost a quarter of young people aged under 25 in the european union are currently unemployed. in figures, this means that almost 6 million young people are now unemployed, and this reality is also reflected in the impoverishment of national budgets, which consume money for the maintenance of these young people, without collecting taxes and duties from them. the development, at european level and at the level of each member state, of incentive programmes to employ this enormous human resource with its enthusiasm intact and fresh from school can only bring about optimal results, from an economic point of view, for everyone. this is the first time in 30 years that europe has seen such dramatic figures for youth employment. as some studies have shown, young unemployed people are likely to repeat this behaviour throughout their lives, and this can only result in putting an unnecessary burden on national and european budgets in the long term.
in writing. − i welcome the approval of the report on promoting young people's access to the labour market and strengthening the status of trainees, apprentices and apprentices as a step forward towards improving the quality of work in europe, one of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. youth unemployment is one of europe's most pressing problems. all member states need to intervene and tackle youth unemployment through policy priorities and strategies that reflect national specificities. the eu must also be united in its common strategies. this youth challenge requires an integrated and coherent approach, combining both macroeconomic and microeconomic interventions, focusing on labour supply and demand, and addressing both the quantity and quality of employment. a coherent combination of educational, financial, social and employment policies is needed. through economic and political investment in new jobs, education and training, a more dynamic labour market and decent work, we can transform the european labour market and re-orient current trends towards a better future for young people.
in writing. - we often say that young people are the future of europe. despite strategies to address this, statistics show that unemployment disproportionately affects young people. it is a serious problem that unemployment among them is twice the european average. unfortunately, the outlook is not encouraging either. that is why i welcome the draft report on the access of young people to the labour market, especially since we cannot at this moment predict with any certainty the end of the economic crisis. i have personally tabled several amendments to the opinion of the committee on culture and education on the draft report voted today. we stressed the importance of entrepreneurship education as an integral part of the skills training needed for new types of jobs, but also the need to develop specific programmes for young people with disabilities. without these measures, it will be difficult to ensure that they have the best chance of entering the labour market. last but not least, i believe it is useful to encourage mobility programmes aimed at including young employers, just as it is extremely important to generalise apprenticeships, which are designed to complement the school curriculum and give young people the opportunity to gain experience and to open up to the labour market.
in writing. − the challenges in achieving a 'europe for the young' are to actively mobilise investment, create new jobs and provide vocational training opportunities. member states should encourage employers to offer young people stable and long-term jobs and pay that reflects their level of effort and their professional and intellectual abilities, to protect them against contracts containing clauses that place them in a precarious position in relation to the employer, to ensure a gender balance in terms of employment conditions between young women and men at the beginning of their careers and, not least, to ensure access to social protection mechanisms for young men and women.
in writing. − the european union is facing a major financial, economic and social crisis, and to overcome it, efforts to invest in skills, vocational training and sustainable job creation must be stepped up. in this context, atypical forms of contract have increased significantly, with young workers aged 19-29 or over 50, women and low-skilled workers being the most affected. in terms of quality of work, these workers face low job security, lack of a set career plan, fewer opportunities for training and career development and greater difficulties in reconciling work and family life. it is therefore necessary to extend the protection of workers in these atypical forms of contract, to take measures against undeclared work and to facilitate the transition between different employment situations and unemployment. any form of employment must be accompanied by a set of rights including: equal treatment, protection of the health and safety of workers, access to training, collective bargaining and freedom of association and representation.
in writing. − increasing resource efficiency in europe is one of the priority objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. for example, biogas is a valuable resource for the production of electricity and transport fuel, as well as for supplying the gas grid. the most efficient way to produce biogas is by recovering organic waste, which benefits industry, the economy and the environment. at the same time, recycling of bio-waste can also help to reduce the use of chemical fertilizers in agriculture, especially phosphorus-based ones, and to improve the hydrological retention capacity of the soil to maintain high productivity. this link between the transition to a recycling society, the development of a low-carbon economy and the potential for job creation in the field is important in the current economic, environmental and social context.
in writing. − a strategic objective of waste management policy is to transform the eu into a recycling society. the enormous amount of waste produced annually in the eu (estimated at between 76.5 and 102 million tonnes of bio-waste, and in romania at around 8 million tonnes) cannot be wasted. biological waste plays an important role in combating climate change (in 2004, the waste sector emitted a total of 109 million tonnes of greenhouse gases), offering valuable potential for protecting soil and promoting renewable energy production. this means that sustainable development can be promoted through resource efficiency: the correct and uniform eu-wide management of bio-waste, the promotion of technological innovation and the creation of green jobs (e.g. the recycling industry of 10 000 tonnes of waste creates up to 250 jobs). therefore, a mandatory separate collection system, the recycling of bio-waste, a specific bio-waste directive, the encouragement of research and innovation and increased awareness of waste prevention measures among citizens are necessary to help the economy and the environment and to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission appreciates the constructive spirit that has guided the trialogues where the regulation on the european systemic risk board was negotiated. i want to thank the rapporteurs for the formidable efforts they have made so far, and the work is bound to continue. as you well know, the latest trialogue actually took place yesterday evening. we regret that an agreement could not be reached for adoption at first reading at this plenary part-session, but we are satisfied that all parties are committed to carrying out the adoption by september. i understand that many of the discussions between the council and parliament revolve around people and institutions and who will do what in the esrb. should the chair of the esrb be elected, or should he or she be automatically the ecb president? should the esrb general board and steering committee include outside independent experts and, if so, with or without voting rights? should the president of the efc participate in the work of the esrb? i am confident that these diverging requests by the council and parliament can be merged into a mutually acceptable solution. the same goes for the many discussions revolving around the involvement of the council and parliament in the follow-up to the recommendations of the esrb. there again, an agreement is not far away. i trust there is no divergence that cannot be resolved by a thorough negotiation and appropriate wording to avoid any misunderstanding on the respective prerogatives of both bodies. so while i somehow regret that parliament will not be able to vote on a text fully agreed with the council now at this session, i am still delighted by the clear willingness shown by all to reach an agreement by september. finally, let me say frankly that we badly needed a modern supervisory architecture, as well as a body doing analysis of systemic risks to macrofinancial stability, well before the financial crisis hit europe. we would be much better off now in dealing with the financial repair if we had already had this at our disposal. i therefore want to stress again that the fact that the new supervisory framework will be established rapidly, and certainly by 1 january next year, is indeed sensible. our citizens expect action without further delays, which should be possible considering how much we agree in the fundamentals and how close we are to an agreement on even the details. equally important, the esrb is an essential building block of a genuine economic and monetary union of its stronger economic pillar and thus of our systemic response to the financial crisis. it is also a key building block to restore and reinforce confidence in the european economy which is so much needed now. in order to strengthen the economic recovery, to strengthen confidence, we need to deliver on all fronts: safeguard financial stability, pursue fiscal consolidation, conclude financial repair and especially the new supervisory architecture, and reinforce economic governance. only by making concrete and rapid progress on all these fronts can we strengthen the recovery and solidify the economic and monetary union. i count on your support on these very important endeavours.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good idea that parliament has joined this debate on supervision and crisis management. it is also a good idea to describe these two major topics in a more general context, since the requirements for increased capital, improved corporate governance, will need to be addressed and complemented. we shall come back to this, as i shall have the opportunity to do in the coming weeks or months, on a series of proposals which have been put together in an agenda which the commission approved on 2 june, which the council of finance ministers supported, which the european council took up on its behalf. we shall see - and i echo what many of you have said - whether there is any real coherence between the decision taken at the g20 and the european council and the decision taken at the council of ministers in the same direction. there are a lot of issues that are part of this architecture of prevention, crisis management, supervision. i am thinking of the funds for resolutions which we have proposed, as mrs ferreira herself has done, in the context of crisis management. i am also thinking of the earlier proposals by mr garcía-margallo y marfil, and we will be presenting legislative proposals on these topics in 2011. there is also the governance of financial companies and bank capital. i shall come back to this in the spirit of mr karas' report. a few words about the two subjects for today. first, supervision, which is, in fact, the backbone. the subject is extremely serious and, as you have said, if we do not succeed in creating credible authorities and the systemic risk committee, many other reforms will not be effective. we have talked a few weeks ago about rating agencies - i will come back to that - or the implementation of prudential standards. we need this credible european architecture of supervision. that is why i want to welcome the high level of ambition shown by your rapporteurs over the past months, mr garcía-margallo y marfil, mr skinner, mr sánchez presedo, mrs goulard, mr giegold, mr tremosa i balcells and mr balz, and in particular the level of ambition regarding the strength of these authorities and their legally binding powers. we find in it the spirit, the philosophy of the commission's proposals. we have found new ideas, which are suitable for us, to improve this european system of financial supervision, as well as the strengthening of consumer protection proposed by sven giegold, in particular to prohibit certain financial products. i am thinking of the role of the authorities in identifying systemic risks and in crisis situations. i'm thinking about strengthening the joint committee, which is very important to peter skinner. i am thinking of the improvement of market transparency, which we are discussing in the context of the omnibus directive that mr sánchez presedo is piloting. these are just a few examples. the hardest part is yet to come. naturally, we have worked hard together, at least i have with you for five months. we have made a lot of progress but, even though we are on the last straightaway, i hope, we have not yet reached an agreement and what i would call a dynamic and credible compromise for this to work. i would like to congratulate the belgian presidency, even though it is not here today, for having been present since the early hours of 1 july at 10 a.m. through its finance minister, didier reynders, and for having participated, very late last night, in the trilogue with many of you. i will repeat what mr garcía-margallo y marfil said. the council must understand that this is the time it needs to act and to make progress. others have said the same. in any case, the commission, with its powers, will do what is necessary to encourage the council to take the opportunity you are giving it, because that is how i see it. the ball is in his court to take these few days and come up with a smart, credible deal. you can count on my availability. a few words on crisis management and prevention to thank mrs ferreira for her commitment. i myself have, for a very long time, had a culture of foresight. i have long believed that in the case of environmental, industrial and financial risks, the polluter should be the payer, that repair always costs more than prevention and that when it comes to prevention or repair, it is not the taxpayers who should be called to the front line. this is the spirit of the toolkit we are going to present to the council of ministers. we will be releasing many of the tools that mrs feirrera herself has proposed, and we will be translating those proposals into legislative proposals. a bill will be presented to you, and i'll make a commitment. this is a subject on which i made a commitment to you and the ministers on the first day, on 13 january, during my hearing and during the ecofin council in madrid. you can count on me to present this credible toolbox based on mrs ferreira's proposals because, once again, i am convinced, in this field as in others, that prevention costs much less than repair.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. - i would like to mention that i am speaking as a shadow rapporteur for the opinion. the current financial crisis has highlighted a lack of effectiveness in managing crisis situations that have arisen in cross-border financial entities in the eu. there have been different approaches at national level, but in general the authorities have either used public funds to rescue the banks or have isolated the banks' assets on national territory, applying national resolution tools only at the level of their own branches. these actions have amplified the risks related to loss of confidence, distortion of competition, legal uncertainty and the high level of the cost incurred for the rescue of the banks, which is borne by the taxpayers. in conclusion, we need measures at european level to eliminate the crisis management of a crossborder banking group through national systems, which can be extremely different and tend to protect existing branches within their own territory rather than resolve the problem of the group as a whole.
the current economic crisis has shown us that we need a system to prevent crises and limit their negative effects. the de larosière report, published in february 2009, analysed financial supervision in the european union, proposing the creation of a sui generis body to be responsible for macroeconomic supervision at the level of the european union and to respond to current weaknesses. since 2000, the european parliament has also asked the commission to come up with proposals aimed at ensuring the stability of the european union's financial markets. in practice, the european union is at a critical juncture where it must prove its usefulness to its citizens, who are looking to it for solutions to the current economic crisis and for effective mechanisms to prevent future economic crises. there has been talk of a democratic deficit in the european union, of a low participation rate of european citizens in european parliament elections, of their non-identification with european policies, and that is why i believe that the treaty of lisbon can indeed be an important step towards addressing these shortcomings, but it is only the basis. the next step is to build a strong foundation that generates confidence in the european economic and political system through stability and the benefits it brings. we need an effective supervisory system that creates the conditions for stable financing of the economy, for ensuring sustainable economic growth and jobs. the unity of the european single market must also be monitored if it is to be avoided from fragmentation. that is why i believe that the european systemic risk board and the financial supervisory authorities should be set up.
i would also like to draw attention to the activity of foreign banks in the new member states outside the euro area. this activity must be given the utmost importance in the framework of financial system supervision, both at the european union and national level, in order to prevent irrational and risky behaviour. i support this because foreign banks in some of the new member states have created extreme risk by taking short-term external credit and extending medium and long-term credit to firms and citizens in these countries. this was a major cause for which the countries concerned urgently appealed to the conditional support of the international monetary fund.
this crisis has shown that we need a better mechanism for cross-border regulation and supervision of financial markets. the main objective of the whole legislative package is to maintain financial stability in the union, to identify risks in the system in advance and to protect investors. it is very important, however, not to over-regulate the market, which could mean more bureaucracy and even corruption. i believe that the three european supervisory authorities, as well as the european systemic risk board, will contribute to strengthening supervision at eu level. it is therefore important that parliament, the council and the commission reach a compromise on the proposals for better regulation and supervision as soon as possible.
on 9 may, the finance ministers of the member states decided to set up a european financial stabilisation mechanism. it is part of a package of legislative measures designed to protect the euro and to restore the financial situation in the european union. i believe that the new mechanism will have to respond in a prompt and coordinated manner if a state cannot finance its public debt by its own efforts. it will thus be able to contribute to the sustainability of public finances in the beneficiary member state. the union has already responded through the european financial stabilisation mechanism to a crisis situation for which it was not sufficiently prepared. finally, i would like to ask you, commissioner barnier, given the temporary nature of this mechanism, which has been in place for three years, and taking into account the need for the union to respond promptly in crisis situations, when do you envisage making this mechanism permanent and what would be the sources of funding for it?
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur for her work and also for her cooperation on many of the issues important to our group. the main concern for the s&d group has always been food from cloned animals. research on the effects of food from cloned animals on humans is limited and has not been conducted to conclude that such food is safe for consumption. ethical concerns about the use of cloning, lack of knowledge about the effects of consumption of such food products on consumers, and animal welfare concerns lead us to conclude that the use of cloning for food production is not justified. the report also addresses the issue of food containing nanomaterials as well as food produced using nanotechnology. the effects of nanomaterials on the human body are unknown. we must do everything we can to ensure the safety of our consumption. we will therefore support the development of specific risk assessment methods by the european food safety authority before such foods are authorised for sale. we need to take a cautious approach to food technology if we do not fully understand its impact on the human body and the environment. it is also important to inform consumers about what they are eating, which is why i support labelling requirements. while the main objective of this regulation should be to ensure that food is safe for the human body, animal welfare is also an important concern. i am happy to support amendments which will ensure improvements in animal welfare, such as the development of alternative testing methods and the exchange of data between applicants for novel foods, where this will prevent the repetition of animal testing. the parliament's position on the issues at hand was very clear at first reading and the report was adopted by a large majority. given that the council has shown very little willingness to compromise on the issue of food from cloned animals, it is important that parliament takes a firm stand at this time. we represent the people and we must not forget that.
food products produced using nanotechnology undoubtedly need to undergo specific risk assessments before they are approved, labelled and placed on the european market, as do food derived from cloned animals and their progeny. these regulations are aimed at ensuring food safety and human health. i agree that the new food names, though dry, are exciting enough to make you dream of all kinds of beautifully colored, juicy, and deliciously tasty fruits you've never seen before. sadly, though, the reality is much grayer. the desire that foodstuffs produced by nanotechnology should only be allowed after nanospecific testing is legitimate. the fact that scientific discoveries in this field have been making rapid progress in recent years and that their practical applications may in the future provide real life-saving solutions to eradicating hunger or counteracting the effects of economic crisis does not give us the right to throw away our safety and health and that of future generations. food from cloned animals is often talked about with astonishing ease, as if it had been around for hundreds of years and everyday life could not be conceived without it. do i need to remind you that the technologies used to produce such foods are, in many ways, still experimental? finally, i just want to ask you: are you willing to put these foods on your children's table?
the purpose of this regulation is to ensure a high level of food safety and protection of the consumer, the environment and animal welfare, based on the precautionary principle. there are currently significant doubts about the safety of meat from cloned animals. they have suffered from premature aging or other diseases, and it is still not clear to scientists what causes the differences between the breeds of animals produced by traditional techniques and those produced by cloning. cloned animals suffer. most of the cloned organisms didn't survive or died prematurely. the success rate is a viable organism at 75 cloning attempts. not least, cloning raises safety concerns. at present, this technique is too dangerous to be used for direct human benefit. it's a serious ethical issue. given the serious health risks and moral consequences of using these techniques, i believe that there should be no ambiguity in this regard. for ethical reasons, for animal welfare reasons and because cloning is not justified in the food supply, i also believe that the ban on cloning should be emphasised in this regulation.
the industrial emissions directive aims to reduce emissions from over 52 000 industrial installations across the union in a variety of industries. installations covered by this directive must be authorised. the permits shall include emission limit values to be complied with and operating conditions established on the basis of best available techniques. in order to obtain these permits, companies in the industries concerned should also submit an investment plan guaranteeing the modernisation of industrial installations with a view to reducing polluting emissions. i believe that this directive should be linked to the industrial policy of the european union. the directive should provide sufficient flexibility for european industry to be modernised so as to preserve industrial production and jobs in the european union, while reducing polluting emissions. finally, i ask the commission to consult parliament and the member states at an early stage in the development of decisions to set emission limit values associated with best techniques and not only after they have been adopted by the commission.
i think the compromise text resulting from the trialogue is a good one. the differences between member states in the implementation and enforcement of legislation are eliminated. a number of derogations and flexibilities have been included for large combustion plants that cannot comply by the date of entry into force of the directive. it will be possible to establish minimum requirements, i.e. minimum emission limit values, for each industrial sector, to be uniformly respected by all economic operators in the european union. derogations from the accepted emission values established on the basis of best available techniques may be granted. these derogations concern cases where the costs of the investment exceed the environmental benefits. the compromise text is part of a systematic approach to improving the performance of industrial installations, both in terms of environmental protection and economic benefits. of all of these... (the president interrupts)
in writing . i would like to welcome the success of the trialogue on the proposed directive on industrial emissions. europe needs a policy that takes account of the modernisation capacities of industrial plants in all member states. most of the provisions in the directive are necessary to ensure the functioning of economic operators in the energy industry who need time to comply with the new rules. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. we are currently seeing a timid development of alternative energy sources in certain regions, which maintains a strong dependence on fossil fuels. we need to find solutions to invest in modern means of producing energy in a way that is as low-polluting as possible and to facilitate the transition of workers from polluting industries, such as coal mining, to other sectors of the economy. the european commission must ensure the uniform spread of state-of-the-art energy production technologies across europe by providing logistical and financial support, where needed, to member states that no longer have the resources to invest in such projects.
trade in illegally sourced or harvested timber has lowered the price of timber and contributed to the depletion of the forest stock. improving the legislative framework in this area is therefore imperative for europe. the new feature of this regulation, namely the introduction of due diligence and control by means of monitoring organisations accredited at union level, will act as an additional filter for the verification of the legality of the placing on the market of timber, but it is not a perfect solution. there are possibilities of circumventing even this system, which is why during the debates in the committee i proposed an amendment whereby monitoring organisations would automatically lose their accreditation if the competent authority found that there was no effective due diligence system implemented by operators. the content of this report is undoubtedly a very important step towards combating the placing on the internal market of illegally obtained timber, but there are still steps to be taken... (the president interrupts)
i am convinced that the belgian presidency, which puts the emphasis on action, will be able to manage adequately the current european context characterised by economic difficulties and a process of institutional re-establishment. we need a new vision of the future of the european union now. europe must continue its enlargement process, strengthen its institutions, economy and currency, and increase its internal cohesion. our peace and stability depends on the peace and stability of our neighbourhood. it is essential in this regard to continue in the period ahead the positive path of the republic of moldova towards the european union, supporting the efforts and reform in line with the european aspirations of this state. i wish you success in promoting your vision of a united and active europe.
in writing. in the context of the current economic crisis, the belgian presidency's decision to prioritise the implementation of long-term economic stimulus measures is welcomed. in this respect, i believe it is very important that the belgian presidency achieves its objectives of establishing new european financial supervisory authorities by the end of this year. they will help to harmonise european rules in the areas of banking, insurance and securities. the belgian presidency should support the strengthening of the european union's relations with the eastern partnership countries. we must pay particular attention to the republic of moldova, because in this country, which wants to get closer to the european union, early parliamentary elections are scheduled for november. i believe that the asia-europe summit, to be hosted by belgium in october, will play an important role in developing relations between the european union and the asian countries. the enlargement negotiations and the process of setting up the european external action service must also be continued.
in writing. i would like to welcome the priorities that the belgian presidency proposes to us. they seem to be quite well adapted to these times. two of them in particular caught my attention: the 'intense' dialogue with the member states and the 'ambitious' policy on access to employment, i.e. jobs. what i want to ask you, on behalf of the romanian citizens i represent, is that they, the romanians, should no longer be second-class when we talk about the labour market and the belgian labour market, unfortunately; that we should no longer be able to speak, after these six months, of unequal and discriminatory access. i have the ambition to thank you and congratulate you on the removal of the barriers which, unfortunately, are no longer used only in belgium. i'm sure you have the same ambition.
in writing. the first priority and one of the biggest challenges of the belgian presidency is to ensure the economic and financial stability of the european union. in this respect, i hope that all efforts will be directed towards resolving the crisis, in order to achieve a speedy economic recovery, sustained growth and more jobs. the implementation of the new economic surveillance mechanism must be finalised, the euro area stabilised and budgetary discipline restored. european funds can help to overcome this period in a pragmatic way. the sums not spent so far must be redirected to areas that create jobs. belgium will also have to complete negotiations with croatia and continue the integration process of the other western balkan countries. i also ask the new presidency to consider including moldova in the package of western balkan countries. there are five components to the work schedule, all of them extremely important. their implementation can also have a positive impact on strengthening the future belgian federal government and the confidence of belgian citizens in the future of europe.
in writing. as a european citizen, i express my firm support for the objectives of the belgian presidency of the european union. we must indeed fight together to overcome the economic crisis, which is seriously affecting a wide range of people. i believe it is imperative to create and develop european economic governance mechanisms, but even more important to give them solid political support so that they can achieve concrete results as soon as possible. we have thus the chance to put into practice the solidarity clauses of the lisbon treaty. in the context of strategy 2020, and in view of the objective of reducing poverty and regional disparities, it is imperative to encourage innovation, research, development and competitiveness. the new eu strategy for the danube region offers us the chance to exploit numerous opportunities, including the links that the european rhine-main-danube corridor provides between belgian and romanian ports. this can lead to the economic and social development of the entire danube area, with beneficial effects on local and regional communities. i also believe that we must continue our efforts to extend the schengen area in accordance with the timetable we have set. as a country on the eu's border, i also stress the need for visible progress on the eastern partnership and the enlargement process of the european union.
in writing. i would like to welcome the ambitious objectives that the belgian presidency of the council is setting itself in its programme for agriculture and fisheries. dairy measures, measures on the quality of agricultural products, improvement and simplification of rural development policy are important, especially in this period of economic crisis. i also believe that the most important challenge for the presidency in this half-year will be to ensure a good framework for the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy and the future financial perspective of the union. by taking a coherent stance in these two important areas, the belgian presidency can have a profound influence on the next decade in europe. i also think that the presidency should pay attention to the issue of fisheries in the black sea, which will be the subject of a report by the european parliament.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, it is a great pleasure for me to address the plenary of the european parliament today on behalf of the presidency of the european union and to present to you our plans for the accession negotiations with iceland, a country which we have all come to know better in recent months through the eyjafjallajökull volcano, with my apologies to the interpreters for forcing them to utter this tongue-twister. i would like to stress first of all that enlargement - as you also stated in your most recent resolution on the enlargement strategy - has been a success story for the eu and for europe as a whole, and has brought benefits to both the existing and the new member states. the enlargement process continues to contribute to peace, democracy and stability on the european continent. it gives the eu a greater voice in the world and also brings tangible benefits for its citizens, including greater prosperity, improved prospects for economic growth and new opportunities for cooperation, for example in transport, energy and many other areas. building on the progress made by previous presidencies and in line with the renewed consensus on enlargement contained in the european council conclusion of december 2006, and with the programme of the council presidency trio, the belgian presidency will continue the work. perhaps i should point out that the steering of enlargement is one of the five priority areas of the belgian presidency. the european council of 17 june welcomed the commission's opinion on iceland's application for membership and the recommendation to open accession negotiations with iceland. in the light of the renewed consensus on enlargement, the european council has concluded that iceland fulfils the political criteria set by the copenhagen european council in 1993 and has decided that accession negotiations will be opened. the european council also asked the council to establish a general framework for negotiations and also recalled the objective of the negotiations, namely that iceland should adopt the acquis in full and ensure its full implementation and enforcement. the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence that the icelandic state has not provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence that the icelandic state has provided any evidence. the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have taken the necessary measures to address the deficiencies identified in the commission's opinion. the european council also welcomed iceland's willingness to address these issues and is confident that it will actively pursue its efforts to resolve all the questions and reservations. finally, the european council confirmed that, as with all other candidate countries, the negotiations will be based on iceland's own merits and that the pace of progress will depend on the progress made by the country in meeting the criteria set out in the negotiating framework. how are we going to work on this? we will apply the same procedure as that which we followed in the previous accession process, in respect of the renewed consensus on enlargement. in the first place, the council will adopt a negotiating framework for iceland, which will establish the general principles governing the negotiations and the conditions which they will have to fulfil. this negotiating framework will also take account of iceland's own merits and specific situation and characteristics. the fact that the country has recently benefited from the preaccession aid instrument, the iap, will certainly facilitate its preparation for accession. the commission has already sent the draft negotiating framework to the council and i hope that the general affairs council, which i will chair on 26 july, will be able to adopt it in order to pave the way for the first intergovernmental conference on accession with iceland before the end of the month. if it is confirmed, such a timetable would allow us to begin accession negotiations before the summer break. iceland will then be subject to the commission's analytical examination of the acquis, known as screening, which aims to determine the extent to which the candidate countries are prepared to open negotiations in a number of the specific areas of the acquis. these domains are subdivided, as you know, into chapters. the commission will present this autumn its first regular report on iceland's progress towards accession. on the basis of the results of the commission's screening and a proposal which it will submit, the council will decide on the criteria to be applied for the opening or closing of each chapter. some people are asking how long the accession negotiations with iceland will take. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the icelandic authorities have not yet submitted a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. it is not, however, appropriate for the council to fix a timetable for the negotiations or to prejudge their substance. indeed, in other areas such as, for example, fisheries, including whaling, on which europe has a clear position and which is part of the acquis, to which iceland will also have to conform, as well as agriculture and rural development, it is likely that negotiations will be a little less easy. enlargement is fuelled by merit and not by an artificial calendar. the third point is that the belgian presidency is firmly committed to advancing this process. president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the enlargement process has been a success story for the european union and for europe as a continent. the belgian presidency therefore looks forward to working with you in a positive and constructive way over the next six months, not only with regard to the accession of iceland but also with regard to the other candidate countries. i would like to confirm what my prime minister has just made clear in his explanatory statement. the belgian presidency is particularly aware of the crucial role played by the european parliament, not least after the treaty of lisbon, in matters such as support for the enlargement process, including by ensuring that the citizens of the european union also continue to support this process. i would therefore like to express my appreciation for the commitment of the european parliament and for your constructive contribution to the eu's enlargement policy, for example in this resolution, in persuading public opinion and continuing to ensure sufficient support for an enlargement policy in the minds of all european citizens. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is my pleasure to be here with you today for an exchange of views on iceland and the next steps in the accession process. the unanimous decision of the heads of state and government to open accession negotiations, taken at the june european council, is an important step forward in the country’s bid to join the european union. it clearly confirms that iceland has a place in the european union and the common will of member states to welcome it as soon as all conditions are met. the commission warmly welcomes this decision, which follows the recommendations of our opinion of february. let me seize this opportunity to thank the house for its support in this process and congratulate the rapporteur, the honourable member preda, for his timely and high-quality report. the european parliament resolution under discussion today is a very helpful contribution to the process. it delivers the right messages to iceland at the right moment. i can assure the house of the commission’s full support for this resolution. with the political backing of member states, the commission is now actively preparing the next stages of the accession process. as a first step, the commission prepared a draft negotiating framework, rightly admitted by my predecessor, which is currently under discussion in the council. the belgian presidency foresees adoption by the general affairs council on 26 july, with a view to convening the first intergovernmental conference with iceland on 27 july. we count on the member states’ support in this endeavour. the negotiating framework lays down the general guidelines for the conduct of accession negotiations and points out reforms iceland must undertake in order to join the european union. as with all candidates, negotiations will be based on the country’s own merits and their pace will depend on iceland’s progress in meeting the requirements set out in the negotiating framework. this includes the fulfilment of iceland’s obligations under the european economic area. the commission will provide iceland with all necessary technical support to facilitate the process of negotiations. furthermore, we are actively preparing for the assessment of iceland’s compliance with the acquis, on a chapter-by-chapter basis, through the so-called screening exercise. that screening is expected to start in autumn 2010 and should last until mid-2011. in line with the renewed consensus on enlargement, screening of chapters with special sensitivity in the icelandic context – meaning financial services, fisheries, agriculture and the environment – should start very early in the process. throughout the whole process, the commission aims to support iceland’s efforts to meet the accession criteria, through financial assistance under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). we therefore welcome the entry into force next week of the amended ipa regulation, which allows iceland to benefit from eu assistance. i would like to thank parliament for its constant support in the process of adopting this important regulation. as a sign of it now belonging fully to the enlargement family, iceland will, for the first time, be included in our annual enlargement package this year, with the first progress report to be published mid-november, whereby progress over the last year will be monitored. as you can see, all preparations are well on track to allow for an early start to the negotiations. iceland’s membership of the eea, its association with the schengen agreement, and the country’s high democratic standards will be valuable assets in this process. however, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the road to accession will also hold a number of challenges. we are well aware that issues such as whaling and fisheries – to quote the most obvious – are sensitive issues for both iceland and the member states. i heard your call for a constructive attitude when negotiating the fisheries chapters, and can assure you that the commission will conduct talks in the best spirit. as regards the icesave issues, i understand the concerns raised due to the slowdown in bilateral talks following the negative outcome of the referendum in iceland in march. as referred to in your resolution, we hope that clarification of the legal situation provided by a letter of formal notice from the efta surveillance authority will facilitate the process of swiftly finding a satisfactory agreement between iceland, the united kingdom and the netherlands. recent exchanges at ministerial level give reason for hope. let me stress that i greatly appreciate the efforts and commitment of all parties involved to trying to find an agreement on this issue. the commission will closely follow the developments in the framework of the accession process. not least, i share your concerns on the challenges stemming from the absence of national consensus and the related low level of public support in iceland for membership. i have duly noted the call made on the commission to provide support to the icelandic authorities in its communication strategy on european union membership. communication will be a clear priority for ipa support to iceland. we are working on the setting up of an information centre in the country, and on the development of factual and objective communication material. our delegation in reykjavik, which will be fully operational by autumn, will be instrumental in addressing the citizens of iceland. it will work in very close cooperation with the icelandic government, which bears the first responsibility in this regard. to conclude, let me reiterate the commission’s full support for iceland’s aspiration to join the european union. i am confident that iceland will continue to undertake all necessary efforts to ensure a positive outcome of the accession negotiations. as i have emphasised on previous occasions, i will make sure that the parliament is kept fully informed throughout the negotiating process.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to welcome, first of all, the presence of the commission and the council, and the good cooperation we have had so far with these two institutions, as well as with colleagues from the other political groups. the report i have prepared addresses iceland's application for membership of the union in four main ways. one: the political criteria. iceland excels in this, with a strong democratic tradition. on the other hand, despite recent encouraging signs, doubts still hang over the independence of the judiciary. the icelandic authorities have also to put an end to the distinction between european citizens in terms of voting rights and participation in local elections. the second question is the economic criteria. as a member of the european economic area, iceland already fulfils many of the obligations of a member state. i welcome the resumption of bilateral negotiations on the 'icesave' legislation, as well as the recent signs of economic consolidation. i obviously support iceland's desire to join the euro area once it becomes a member state of the union and meets the necessary conditions. the third issue: regional cooperation. in this respect, iceland and its accession represent a unique opportunity for our union to strengthen its presence in the arctic. last but not least, it's about public opinion. this is essential for the success of the accession process and, in this regard, i believe that the initiative of the icelandic authorities to launch a public debate and consult all stakeholders on this project should be encouraged, especially as a recent survey shows that icelanders want to receive more information about the union and its policies.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr cristian preda, on the work he has done in drafting this report. the adoption of the regulation, almost a year after iceland's application for membership, sends a message of support for the country's integration efforts. i would like to emphasize that iceland has been cooperating with the european union for many years, being part of the european economic area since 1994 and the schengen area since 1996. the country will therefore be able to implement european legislation fairly quickly. i believe that iceland's accession is of strategic importance for strengthening the union's role in the arctic and north atlantic. at the same time, iceland would secure its stability, and the european union would include a country that, even if it is now in crisis, has a market economy and a democratic system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i considered that a prudent attitude towards the use of 'new foods' was necessary. this view is linked to the need to protect public health and at the same time to inform consumers about the contents of the food they buy. however, i would like to make it clear that i believe that scientific research into novel foods should not be restricted in any way, the only criterion being the level of food safety.
in writing. − this regulation lays down harmonised rules for the placing on the market of novel foods in the community in order to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the transparency and efficient functioning of the internal market and stimulating innovation in the agri-food industry. i voted for this report so that meat and dairy products from cloned animals or their descendants could be banned in europe and also so that food produced using nanotechnology could be subject to risk assessments and be labelled accordingly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which reconfirms the position of the european parliament on the key issue of foods from cloned animals. there are many ethical concerns regarding the use of this technology, particularly with regard to animal welfare. in addition, we do not fully understand the risks or the reduction of genetic diversity in animals which would result from producing large amounts of clones. there is simply no justification or need to use cloned animals for food production. it is unethical and unnecessary. i will continue to work with the rapporteur and the other shadows to promote parliament’s common view that foods from cloned animals should not be allowed on the eu market. following parliament’s vote, we now have the strong mandate we need to negotiate with the council.
in writing. − we voted this report to adopt the revised legislation on industrial air pollution, with stricter limits for nitrous oxide, sulphur dioxide and dust particles, which are harmful to both health and the environment. i believe that there should be a uniform integrated authorisation system for all installations in the eu, operating under the same emission standards (best available bat techniques) and monitored and controlled on the basis of mandatory minimum requirements. this integrated approach is beneficial both for the protection of the environment and public health and for the sustainable development of european society. it creates new green jobs, ensures the supply of products, electricity and heat to citizens, without distorting competition within the eu.
in writing. − the european parliament's decision to ban illegal timber and to control its exact trajectory will reduce illegal logging and give consumers the opportunity to make informed choices about the products they use. eu legislation banning illegally sourced wood is a major legislative innovation at international level, from forests around the world that are devastated by illegal logging, to the eu market where timber and wood products are sold. the figures we have at this moment show that at least 20% of the timber and timber products that reach the european market come from illegal sources. each of the 27 member states must actively engage in the implementation of the new rules on wood sourcing control and apply sanctions to those who trade illegally harvested wood. it is clear now, more than ever, as europe and romania face catastrophic flooding with human and material losses, that deforestation has partly caused this situation. none of the member states should hesitate to apply criminal sanctions to those who trade illegally harvested wood.
in writing. − illegal logging is a significant contributor to deforestation, with the volume of industrial timber from illegal sources estimated at between 350 and 650 million m3 per year, representing 20% of global industrial timber production. deforestation, which occurs at a rate of about 13 million hectares a year, accounts for about 20% of global carbon emissions and is a significant contributor to the destruction of biodiversity. illegal logging also poses serious human rights problems, since in many countries forests are culturally and socially important to forest-dependent and indigenous peoples. i voted for this report because the proposed legislation promises to ban illegally harvested timber and punish unscrupulous traders.
in writing. − deforestation is responsible for up to 20% of carbon emissions worldwide. it causes excessive damage to ecosystems and threatens the invaluable eco-services they provide. large amounts of deforestation are carried out illegally, without any efforts to replant trees or otherwise manage the process to limit its negative impacts. illegal timber coming from third countries also competes unfairly with the eu forestry industry which, more often than not, is producing timber legally and in a sustainable manner. i therefore welcome this report and parliament’s successful negotiations with the council – it is an important piece of legislation which will help to address many environmental challenges, from biodiversity protection to climate change.
in writing. - the vote to postpone the sánchez presedo report is the european parliament's wake-up call to the council of ministers calling for stricter regulation of the european financial system. the initial proposal put forward by the council was not considered satisfactory by parliament and negotiations did not lead to an acceptable compromise. by postponing the report, we want to give the council time to come up with a proposal that better meets the needs of financial system oversight and that allows for the stabilisation of european economies, growth and the prevention of future crises.
in writing. − the ec has proposed a new architecture for the eu financial regulation, with a view to improving the quality and consistency of supervision, increasing the effectiveness of legislation and enforcement, and better identifying risks that the financial system may face. it was decided to set up a european system of financial supervisors, composed of a network of national financial supervisors, to work with three european supervisory authorities: the european banking authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority. the establishment of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority should be accompanied by the development of a single set of rules to ensure consistent harmonisation, uniform application, and to help the internal market to function effectively without unnecessarily complicating legislation and its implementation. member states, in cooperation with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, should ensure consistent harmonisation, uniform application of this directive by applying common technical standards on authorisation, notification, information and publication procedures and by regular exchanges of information and experience and closer cooperation, thereby preventing distortions of competition and creating the conditions necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the cross-border affiliation.
in writing. − the new rules on bank bonuses adopted by the european parliament would put an end to incentive policies in this system, even under conditions of excessive risk. the measures are welcome two years after the financial crisis began, as the bonus culture has had serious negative consequences on the global economy, with every european taxpayer now having to pay. the banking system may be quick to accuse the union of interfering in its own policies, but in fact it is only protecting the taxpayer, whereas the banking system has often looked after its own interests, ignoring those of consumers. changing the philosophy of bonus-giving in the banking system, judging by the long-term rather than short-term profits of banks, will make europe partly immune to economic slide. in addition, each banking institution must behave responsibly and accept that there must be an appropriate ratio between fixed remuneration and the amount of bonuses. it is good that parliament has also decided that there must be a fair balance between bonuses and pension policy. it is normal for a banker to receive a pension commensurate with the results that the financial institution he has led has achieved.
in writing. − as regards capital movements, the effects of globalisation have significantly influenced financial markets. thus, in addition to their role in controlling inflation, central banks have had to introduce a new objective into their agenda, namely the stabilisation of financial markets. the crisis has highlighted important oversight gaps. unfortunately, the accumulation of excessive risks in this sector could not be prevented and, at the same time, there were numerous weaknesses in macro-prudential supervision. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the european union urgently needs a new financial architecture that includes integrated micro-prudential supervision. this will enable us to identify and prevent future risks that could threaten financial stability at european level.
in writing. − during this crisis, it has become clear that the european union has not been able to manage crises caused by crossborder financial institutions in an efficient and effective manner. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to achieve its objective of maintaining a stable and stable financial situation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need to create a european crisis management framework with common legislative rules applicable to all banking institutions operating in the eu. i also believe that these rules should promote the stability of the financial system and strengthen the internal market for financial services and its competitiveness.
in writing. − i consider iceland's accession to the european union to be beneficial for both sides: iceland will enjoy greater economic stability and the european union will play a more active role in the arctic region. however, there are several shortcomings that iceland needs to address by the time of accession. one of them is the reform of financial supervision. iceland is part of the european economic area and applies the community acquis in the field of the single market, but full compliance with it is needed in the areas of conformity assessment, accreditation and market surveillance. another issue that needs to be addressed is the independence of the judiciary. i voted for the resolution, expressing my hope that iceland will succeed in meeting these conditions, which i consider essential for the proper functioning of the union as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as iceland's accession would allow the union to play a more active role in the arctic region and would contribute to multilateral governance in the arctic. i hope that the negotiations will proceed in a constructive manner and that they will give iceland the opportunity to move closer to the european model. as regards eu accession, national public opinion has changed considerably since the summer of 2009 and opposition to accession has never been so high, i believe that in the near future the authorities should organise a broad information campaign on the implications of this process so that icelanders can make an informed decision in the forthcoming referendum on accession.
mr president, we need a proactive foreign policy, guided by our european common goals and based on our common values. this policy should recognise the indivisibility of security in the globalised world, this being a source of solidarity of interest, both within and outside the european union. such a policy, aimed at increasing the european union’s capacity for providing security to its citizens and improving its capacity to shape the global environment, not only to react to changes, requires an adequate institutional instrument – an efficient european external action service. we should not forget that this service is not a decision-making body. it is a community instrument that will have to implement foreign policy and external action decisions and, before that, support and facilitate the decision-making process under the authority of the high-representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission and in coordination with other relevant institutional actors. parliament’s main concerns were clearly expressed, ensuring political oversight and accountability of the service, including in its budgetary dimension. this in turn requires transparency in the functioning of the service and clarity through the presentation of a consolidated budget of the european union external action. in this way, the parliament can check whether the means match the policy and ensure the policy’s effectiveness. this report and the agreement it stands for meet the above-mentioned european parliament demands. moreover, a process of fine tuning and revision is provided for, so as to tackle in due time the unforeseen problems and deficiencies that may arise. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, the creation of the european external action service is a big step forward in the right direction. moreover, it will be a major change of pattern. if, as a rule, bureaucracy slows down courageous initiatives, this time we expect to accelerate one, namely foreign policy integration within the eu. my remarks address the apparent gap between our current efforts to provide the service with a solid legal and administrative base and the reality of manning it because, while we are fiercely debating important principles like geographic balance and corrective measures, job interviews are taking place in parallel. according to opinions explained by those interviewed from the new member states, the process seems to entail little hope for them – which, if true, would be both sad and unfair. therefore, i think that those in charge should be convinced that in the end, one way or another, the principles agreed upon in this house will have to be complied with –the sooner the better.
we are entering a decisive stage in the creation of the european external action service. it is desirable that all the legislative elements necessary for the launch of the service are adopted as soon as possible. this will enable the service to be operational by the end of the year and to have all three sources provided for in the treaty in its structure. what is not clear, however, at this stage, is how the geographical balance of the staff of the european external action service will be achieved. the new member states, and in particular member states such as romania, which joined in the last stage of the 5th wave of enlargement, have a negligible presence in the structures that currently manage external relations. i want to know how the high representative intends to correct this situation. i personally do not think there is a very clear view of the real disparities that are being announced in terms of geographical balance, including at management level.
mr president, the european parliament should have a strong and united position on the long-lasting crisis in albania. i am deeply concerned about the institutional and political crisis that albania has already faced for a year now, as well as about the attitude of the governing majority which is impeding all compromise with the opposition and leaving the country in a permanent state of instability. i urge the majority to negotiate closely with the opposition and to welcome the permanent support of the two main political groups in the parliament in order to reach a political solution – a positive one for the country –to ensure that albania has a stable outcome from this crisis and to guarantee that in all future elections the democratic will of the albanian citizens will be fully respected, while ensuring full and uninterrupted parliamentary activity. in the end, prime minister berisha, instead of trying to pronounce my name correctly in the albanian parliament, you must realise that european integration is at stake. the free-visa regime might be only the first step but the copenhagen criteria are the prerequisite.
i do not think that the report drawn up by mrs lunacek reflects the position of all the eu member states. i would remind you that five of them, cyprus, greece, romania, slovakia and spain, have not recognised kosovo's independence. my country supports the process of stabilisation and democratisation of kosovo through the participation of romanian gendarmes, police and military in eulex and kfor missions, but romania does not recognise the declaration of independence in pristina, in view of the principles of international law on respect for the borders and sovereignty of serbia. i believe that the recognition of kosovo's independence could set a dangerous precedent, since there is no un security council resolution to that effect. kosovo also has serious problems related to high levels of corruption and organised crime. in conclusion, i would like to say that for these reasons i will not support the report on the process of european integration in kosovo.
the situation in the western balkan countries is extremely complex, with the ethnic factor and the majority-minority relationship shaping the development of the region. it is clear that the european union cannot be indifferent to the problems of these countries, since the region is of paramount importance for the enlargement process. however, it is regrettable that, while we agree on the importance of a common foreign policy voice, a common position of the member states, for the eu's growing international role, we still see that kosovo, as the youngest state in the world, is not recognised by five eu member states. the future of albania, kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia, montenegro and serbia also depends on the conditions under which they will join the european union sooner or later. we have a common interest in making this integration a success story. to this end, it is essential that we can reach a common position on the most important issues.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to make a couple of reflections on a very good debate based on very good resolutions. firstly, referring to mr tőkés, towards the end of the discussion, we are talking about the enlargement process in general, so i think it is useful to say that what we need for that enlargement process is to deliver candidates who are a hundred percent ready to assume all the responsibilities of being a member of the european union. we need two things. we need more rigorous attention given to conditionality and, at the same time, a political steering of this process, because enlargement is not just a technical process. it is also a political process and yes, mr tőkés, i will make sure that not only member states are part of the political steering, but also aspirant and candidate countries. they have a lot to say in this respect. i also agree with mr svensson that, while looking at ticking the boxes of the number of resolutions passed and the number of institutions established, we should not lose sight of the bigger picture. that bigger picture is that we are doing all that to establish a firmer foundation of our values. none of the legislation and none of the new institutions will solve the issues we are focusing on in today’s discussions, but this firm foundation of our values will be an appropriate basis for solving and addressing these issues. this leads me to another point. let me use this opportunity to show my appreciation once again for the initiative by the honourable members, mr daul and mr schulz. i think it was unique and unprecedented and the european council took careful note of it. i hope very much that this parliament, through this kind of initiative, will continue to offer to be the place where we could help those who are not able, for whatever reason, to solve their domestic issues. i call on you to keep the consensus on these issues because this is a prerequisite for you to play this very important and very useful role. i heard the calls from mr ilchev that the parties should again sit behind the negotiating table. i think they should. we have not been able to solve the issues. there is political stalemate in albania. i would like it very much if the albanian political parties, instead of looking back to the past, were to look to the future and make sure – as mr swoboda quite rightly said – that in the next elections we do not again face the same situation, where those who have lost question the results. regarding the issue of vendetta – the blood feuds – this is a phenomenon which the commission is following very closely. it is a phenomenon which makes me very concerned, particularly about the effects on families and especially on children. it is true that this phenomenon has decreased over recent years but a coordinated strategy dealing with blood feuds – including crimes committed under customary law – remains to be adopted. i will send you more detailed information about what the commission is doing in this regard. mr kacin referred to the violent shooting of mr miletić and others referred to the recent violent incident in mitrovica. the member states have condemned the violence and have made it absolutely clear that, in order to achieve the objectives in kosovo, the violence cannot be tolerated. baroness ashton, the high representative and vice-president of the commission, was in discussion with the leaders both in belgrade and pristina to convey a strong message about showing restraint at this important time as we approach the icj opinion on kosovo.
in writing. with today's debate, the ep reconfirms that regional stability in the western balkans and ensuring a concrete integration perspective for all the countries in this region are eu priorities. i am convinced that the future of all the western balkan states lies in the eu, but the length of the integration process depends on how they solve the problems inherited from the past, looking towards a common european future. as regards kosovo, while recognising the positive developments in the two years since the declaration of independence, it should nevertheless be noted that 2010 is crucial for the intensification of democratic reforms, the relaunch of economic activity, the consolidation of the administration and its decentralisation with a view to fully ensuring respect for the rights of ethnic minority communities. the materialization of kosovo's european perspective depends to a large extent on the efforts of the government and the new administration in the process of democratisation and stabilisation and association. improving regional cooperation is essential for the eu's enlargement policy in the western balkans to become effective. these efforts will only succeed if they are widely supported by the eu, including through the recognition of the new geo-political reality by all member states.
i would also like to thank the commission for the statements it has made. there is no 100% safe type of operation. there is always a degree of risk, but the question is how much risk are companies taking in each case. the cost of exploitation can be extremely high, depending on the geological characteristics of the area, which may cause a company to take on high risks to ensure that it makes a profit. it costs much less to increase safety measures than to look for solutions after the fact. i believe that legislation must be sufficiently stringent to prevent such accidents and that we must also ensure that companies operating in european waters have the financial capacity to withstand damage to the environment and society in a maximum risk scenario. i would like to join my colleague mr sonik in asking the commission to consider creating an emergency fund to ensure that damage is covered even when the costs exceed the financial capacity of the polluter.
it is expected that by 2030 global oil demand will be one third higher than today, and in the european union the share of oil will represent 35% of primary energy demand. today, oil extraction facilities and transport infrastructure are in a continuous process of aging. in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, investment opportunities in oil infrastructure are relatively limited and i believe that both the commission and the member states must coordinate their efforts closely to facilitate investment in this area, in particular to avoid negative consequences of possible catastrophes on the environment and to ensure the energy security of the european union. they also support intensifying dialogue with the big oil companies and continuing european policies in this sector, with a view to eliminating, or at least reducing, the negative effects generated by oil exploitation and extraction.
in april, here again, we expressed our concern about the possibility of an escalation of violence in kyrgyzstan. sadly, in the period that followed, several hundred people lost their lives in interethnic conflicts. the situation in kyrgyzstan continues to threaten the stability of the entire central asian region. the uzbek minority, which represents over 14% of the population, continues to be in a difficult situation. over 400,000 people have been forced to flee their homes due to the violence. the fact that the june 27 referendum went off without major incident demonstrates that the situation in this country can be improved. i believe that the will of the people, who supported the adoption of a new constitution by more than 90%, must be respected. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the european union must play a more active role in central asia, both politically and economically.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i begin by saying that i am confident that the vienna conference will help us to move forward in enforcing the rights of people to be protected against avoidable hiv infections and in gaining access to the evidence-based prevention and highly efficient treatment that so many honourable members have referred to this evening. i want to assure you as well that we will maintain and increase our dedication to defending these rights inside europe, but also as part of our relations with third countries whether they are close to our borders or on other continents. unfortunately i will be in the middle east, so i will not be able to participate in the vienna conference, but my colleague commissioner dalli, who of course carries a portfolio for health and consumer policy, will represent the european commission and will speak at the opening session of the conference. many services of the commission from different sectors in health, research and development will attend and, if i may, i would like to extend an invitation to any honourable members participating in the conference to meet with the services in the eu area where policies and actions that we take in the eu will be presented, or indeed to join the satellite sessions which are being organised by the commission. if i may, i will conclude my remarks by doing something that honourable members have also done in this debate. my personal story of this starts by remembering that there has been an important football match in south africa tonight. i recall that when i was in south africa a few years ago i was taken for a drive outside of johannesburg up into the country. the person driving me was talking about the problems of hiv and aids in south africa – an issue which has been taken up by many people and not least by someone i have had the privilege of working with, annie lennox, the singer. as we drove through the countryside the driver said, ‘pick a village, pick any village that you like in the next hour’. we drove along and i said i saw many villages but i would choose that one. i pointed to a village, we drove into the village and he drove me to the graveyard. he said that in africa the tradition is that you do not lay the headstone for one year after the death of a person, so any crosses that you see, small crosses, represent people who have died within the last year. i went to this graveyard and there were hundreds of them. he said to me very simply: those are the victims of aids. honourable members, what i saw was the tragedy of an unnecessary devastation and i pay tribute to the honourable members who have put forward this resolution and promise to do my best to support its implementation.
in writing. the number of people living with hiv continues to rise, with estimates showing that 33.4 million people worldwide are infected with hiv/aids, of whom no less than 2.7 million were infected in 2008. i believe that both the european commission and the council must step up their efforts to address hiv/aids as a global public health priority, placing human rights at the heart of prevention and treatment of this disease and of care and assistance to those affected. these two institutions should encourage countries most affected by hiv and aids to develop coordinated national hiv policy frameworks to ensure effective hiv prevention and care. the european commission, member states and the international community must urgently adopt legislation to ensure access to effective and affordable hiv medicines, diagnostics and technologies for the prevention, treatment and palliative care of hiv infection.
i join my colleagues in highlighting the quality of this report and the broad consensus it has enjoyed in the committee on agriculture. on the one hand, it is an ambitious report, because it seeks to find solutions to the great challenges of the moment; on the other hand, it is a balanced report, which seeks to respond to the legitimate concerns of the new member states to benefit equitably from the common agricultural policy. i would like to stress in particular the articles dealing with the architecture of the common agricultural policy. the cap must remain based on its two pillars. the abolition of these would destroy the cap or turn it into a policy that could not contribute to the modernisation and competitiveness of agriculture. the abolition of the rural development pillar would be a mistake and a brake on the modernisation of agriculture throughout europe, but especially in the new member states. another key point is to maintain a cap budget at least at the current level. european farmers are obliged to meet the highest quality standards, which is reflected in the quality of the food europeans consume and in our international competitiveness. but to meet these standards, farmers need support. a well-constructed and well-funded common agricultural policy means safe and quality food for europeans. i believe that by voting on this report parliament will send a clear and unequivocal signal to the council and the commission about our position as representatives of the european citizens.
i congratulate the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and all those involved in this project of major importance for the future of the cap. in a globalised world, the european union, with its single market, must act as one to guarantee food security, promote renewable resources, combat climate change and intensify research to make the most of the opportunities it offers. the cap must provide both a stable perspective and framework, favouring the development of agricultural production through increased productivity and competitiveness, and a well-functioning market, in order to guarantee strategic independence of supply in all key production sectors. i think it is vital to maintain the two pillars of the common agricultural policy, with a clear distinction, in which we have pillar i strong enough to ensure a fair standard of living for farmers in all the countries. ..the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. adapting the cap to new socioeconomic realities is a necessity, and to do so we need to answer some key questions. i completely agree with the need for food security. but how independent do we want to be, and how much are we willing to pay extra for it? so far, the cap has kept food prices high, which in other countries cost less. the eu cannot promote free trade and protect its agricultural market. solutions must be found so that the eu imposes its own quality standards on the world, so that the discrepancy between the prices of agricultural products in different countries is reduced. but i am most concerned about the effect of the cap reforms on farmers. the decoupling has done nothing but direct payments to the big landowners; they are not necessarily the farmers! the decoupling is necessary to avoid overproduction, but i ask the commission to propose fairer criteria so that farmers are the real beneficiaries of the cap. we need incentives for farmers, and especially to encourage young people to go to rural areas, and that will not happen by maintaining the current system of direct payments which is absurd.
in writing. at the beginning of european integration, the common agricultural policy not only ensured food security for the population but also provided the basis for the modernisation of european agriculture and the development of other policies. however, the european union (eu) recently added 12 new members. this means that the eu's pre-2004 agricultural population of 6 million has increased by a further 7 million, and its agricultural area has increased by 40% from 130 million hectares to 185 million hectares. when the new member states joined, they expected that their producers would eventually benefit from the cap subsidies to the same extent as those of the old member states. however, this requires that the resources allocated to the agricultural policy are not reduced in the period after 2013. the eu must take account of the different situations and needs of the member states, as european agriculture can only serve the interests of the member states, producers and all citizens if it does not lead to an unfair distribution of resources due to modernisation differences.
i voted differently from the ppe group on the resolution on kosovo because, unfortunately, i had no other option than to vote against this text. there are several substantive issues in this resolution that i share and that i think we all support. the people of kosovo must enjoy a viable democracy, with a fair and impartial judiciary, a society free of corruption and in which human rights, and in particular the rights of minorities, are respected. in short, i want the province of kosovo to achieve sustainable stability and economic development within the european perspective of the western balkans. but i come from a state which has not recognised the independence of the province of kosovo and, from this point of view, the abundant references to elements of statehood, country, government, citizens, borders etc. in this text are unacceptable to me. i regret that the position of the states which do not recognise kosovo's independence has not been taken into account more.
the june ethnic violence in southern kyrgyzstan has left hundreds dead, thousands injured and tens of thousands displaced. this shows that the european union needs to be more actively involved in addressing these central asian processes. when we provide assistance to kyrgyzstan, we should be targeting the people, not a particular government. on 22 june, at a meeting of the central asian delegation, kyrgyz ambassador z. azilov stated that the violence was not an act of ethnic cleansing and that the international media did not provide an objective assessment of the situation. the uzbek has a different view on this matter. according to the report, several human rights defenders have been unjustly detained in kyrgyzstan. such facts should be taken into account in the assessment of the european union's strategy towards the political power in kyrgyzstan. in parallel, negotiations should also be conducted with other countries in the region, in particular with kyrgyzstan's neighbours russia and china. these countries also have a significant influence in the region. the report calls on the kyrgyz government to carry out a credible and responsible investigation into the conflict, possibly in the presence of international observers, and i have therefore also supported this report, as this investigation is urgently needed. thank you.
i preferred to abstain on this resolution because the deadline mentioned in the text in article 2, with reference to romania, may be too restrictive in the context of the geneva negotiations on the convention on the prohibition of certain conventional weapons. i believe that the un mechanism is an appropriate multilateral framework for the examination and negotiation of an international legal instrument to regulate the regime of cluster munitions, as 110 states are participating in the negotiations.
in writing. − i supported the agreement between the eu and the usa on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data from the eu to the usa for purposes of the terrorist finance tracking program. thanks to the considerable efforts of the rapporteur and the members of the libe committee, the current text of the agreement contains considerable improvements on the previous version of the agreement. of particular importance for the future of combating terrorism whilst protecting the fundamental rights of citizens to protection of their personal data is article 2 pertaining to the drafting of a legal and technical framework for an eu data extraction capability. the commission should carry out this task in an assiduous and timely fashion. the addition to the agreement of article 2 has the potential to greatly reduce the quantity of bulk data sent for analysis beyond the eu’s borders. articles 15 and 16 ensure that citizens have strengthened access to redress and increased transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr brok because it represents an important step towards the establishment of the european external action service. the european parliament will play an important role in the work of the european external action service, as it will be consulted before the start of any eu mission in third countries. at the same time, its budget will be subject to the political control of parliament. romania has been ready to contribute staff with the necessary expertise to the european external action service since its establishment. my country has demonstrated its commitment to european crisis management missions. over 200 experts, police, gendarmes, diplomats, magistrates and military personnel have been deployed to most of the european union's civil and military missions. finally, i would like to stress that recruitment policy must respect both the principles of competence and geographical balance.
in writing. − the european taxpayer will have increased control over how the union's financial resources are spent by the european external action service. it is commendable that the european parliament has been given increased budgetary powers in this area, as the budget of the service will be subject to legislative control. the european union now has some 7,000 diplomats and civil servants who will ensure that community objectives take precedence over national and even intergovernmental ones. all staff in the european external action service will be politically accountable to the european parliament, more so after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is a victory for parliament that it has succeeded in imposing the idea that a large part of the external action service should be devoted to promoting human rights and ensuring world peace. it is a proof that the european union is consciously assuming its extremely important role as an exporter of fundamental human rights, which are unfortunately being violated in many countries around the world.
in writing. - i was unpleasantly surprised to read in the newspapers that earlier this week a gunman fired four shots at a serb mp in the kosovo parliament. this attack came four days after the mitrovita bombing during a serb demonstration. the eu should focus on the process of democratisation and the consolidation of stability in kosovo. therefore, the draft motion should have reflected primarily the provincial realities, the difficult reform of the judiciary and the difficulties faced by the european missions in the dialogue with the local authorities in pristina. regional cooperation between the western balkan countries is key to their economic development, but above all to the establishment of mutual respect and the rule of law. in particular, cooperation between belgrade and pristina, especially at the local level, is fundamental for citizens, especially in the most affected sectors such as environment, infrastructure and trade. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected.
in writing. − currently, 13.6 million people from eu member states are directly employed in the agriculture, forestry and fisheries sectors, with an additional 5 million people working in the agri-food industry. these products generate over eur 337 billion annually at union level. as the eu must provide food security for its citizens and ensure the long-term development of agricultural sectors, the agricultural sector must undergo major changes to maintain productivity, while adapting to much stricter environmental constraints than before. policies to reduce land use to combat climate change will restrict the acreage used and impose additional conditions on agricultural production to reduce the impact on the environment and climate. in addition, the eu's common agricultural policy will have to adapt to a new global and regional economic and social context, which takes into account rising energy costs. this report correctly identified the key issues facing the cap from 2013 onwards, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. − a da decided to maintain an equal distribution of payments under the common agricultural policy after 2013 for both farmers in the new and old member states, which would eliminate an injustice for the newly acceded states, including romania.
in writing. − agriculture is and will remain a strategic sector of the european union's economy, which will have to face the challenges ahead and ensure the independence and food security of europeans through its common policy. i voted in favour of this very important report because i believe that for the next programming period the common agricultural policy must be supported by a consolidated and well-defined budget, commensurate with the challenges ahead. in my view, it is necessary to establish close links between rural development policy and regional policy in order to ensure the coherence of interventions of the same nature within a given region, thus also promoting territorial cohesion within the european union. i also believe that it is essential to take account of the territorial characteristics and priorities of the regions. we need to promote common standards and objectives, taking into account the specificities of each region, and thus achieve a high-performing, multifunctional and sustainable agriculture in europe.
in writing. − given the strategic importance of the fisheries sector both for supplying the population and for the balance of the food balance of the various member states and the european union as a whole, i believe that, like the agricultural sector, the fisheries sector is a strategic sector, which depends on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of natural resources.
i want to join those who have called for the immediate release of farai maguwu. the conditions of detention to which he was subjected, as well as the disregard of his basic rights in the course of the proceedings, must be condemned. the role of civil society organisations is, as is well known, essential not only for the success of the kimberley process but also for ensuring democracy in zimbabwe in general. but progress on the path to democracy in this country cannot be made if human rights defenders are silenced when they are alerting the international community to the violations being committed. i would also like to stress that the zimbabwean authorities have a duty to investigate impartially the human rights violations committed in the diamond mines and to bring those responsible to justice. the key word here is transparency. the citizens of zimbabwe have a right to be informed and the authorities must respect the commitments they have voluntarily made in the kimberley process.
the case we are discussing today, the arrest and detention of farai maguwu for over a month, reflects zimbabwe's lack of progress in respecting human rights and draws attention to the dire situation in the diamond mines in the east of the country, where the military is often accused of crimes, violence and serious abuses. over the past 30 years, the mugabe regime has plunged zimbabwe into economic bankruptcy and humanitarian catastrophe. blood diamonds are evidence of the cynicism of ruthless rulers who have no respect for their own citizens. zimbabwe is breaching the standards set by the kimberley process for the certification of the trade in rough diamonds and i believe that the european union has a duty to support more actively this cooperation structure to strengthen the moral dimension of the diamond trade in the effort to suppress the diamond trade that fuels conflict and armed groups and comes from barbaric exploitation. we call for the immediate release of farai maguwu and call on european diplomacy to consider the possibility of adopting firm sanctions against the harare regime to force it to stop its mistreatment of human rights activists and to end the bloody slavery in the diamond mines.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very grateful for the discussion that is taking place in this chamber today. the tel aviv intercessional meeting of the kimberley process on 21-24 june this year was very heavily clouded by the arrest of mr farai maguwu. the commission shares the concerns of the european parliament and has insisted that mr maguwu is treated in full respect of his legal right of defence. the eu delegation is monitoring his situation very closely. it is in contact with mr maguwu’s lawyers, reflecting our local strategy to support human rights defenders and to reinforce their protection. we have also called on zimbabwe to reaffirm its commitment to the role of civil society in the kimberley process. while the mandate of the kimberley process is focused on preventing the trade of conflict diamonds, it is clear that this process cannot operate in a vacuum and ignore human rights concerns. that has been a very strong message conveyed today in this chamber – all the more so if we recognise that respect for human rights is a principle that underlies the very aim of the kimberley process. turning to the tel aviv meeting itself, the eu supported the continued implementation of the swakopmund decision and the joint work plan to bring mining cooperation in marangwe into compliance with the rules of the kimberley process, including application of the so-called supervised export mechanism. we believe that further engagement with zimbabwe in the framework of the kimberley process offers the best chance, not only to ensure technical compliance in the marangwe mining area with the kimberley process, but also to enhance governance in this critical sector of the economy and ultimately to improve the human rights situation in marangwe. it is for these reasons that the eu has called on zimbabwe to maintain a firm commitment to the kimberley process and the joint work plan, so that marangwe diamonds can, at some point, in due course contribute to zimbabwe’s economic development. it is our goal that the participants of the kimberley process and zimbabwe will intensify their efforts in order to forge consensus on this difficult issue, in the spirit of dialogue and cooperation that has always presided over this process. finally, it is important that parliament is informed that, at a meeting with zimbabwean ministers representing the government of national unity on 2 july, baroness ashton, the high representative and vice-president, recalled that the implementation of the global political agreement, which addresses our concern about human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles, is key to achieving normalisation of relations with the eu. as stated earlier, we attach great importance to zimbabwe’s compliance with the rule of law and human rights. this is an issue we have raised on various occasions and in different fora. the commission finances, and will continue to finance, a wide range of activities in zimbabwe, in collaboration with civil society organisations. we will continue to seek and support ways to create and sustain an open political environment where human rights and freedoms are fully respected. with regard to the position of the commission on trade with diamonds from zimbabwe, we called for an audit of the existing diamond stockpile before advancing any discussion on the limited resumption of exports. the eu is invited to the closed session of major stakeholders called by the chair of the kimberley process at the margins of the meeting of the world diamond council on 14 july in st petersburg, where we will advance further discussions on that issue.
in writing. – i join the voices calling for the release of farai maguwu. he was arrested for providing information on the kimberley process. he turned himself in to the police, after his family members were beaten, arrested, and detained, and staff members of his organisation went into hiding. the arbitrary detention of mr maguwu is a message of intimidation that the government of zimbabwe is sending to human rights defenders and free citizens in the country, to prevent them from reporting on the realities in marange. farai maguwu must be released from prison immediately. the government should restore all confiscated computers, files and materials that belong to his organisation, cease the harassment of the organisation’s staff, and establish an independent investigation into the circumstances leading to mr. maguwu’s arrest and detention. the commission and the council must address urgently this request to the government of zimbabwe and make it a non-negotiable request.
author. − madam president, once again we are discussing in this parliament the situation in venezuela – not because we want to, but because we have to. things have not improved since our last resolution; quite the opposite. the very idea of the rule of law is now disappearing under so much pressure put on judges and the judiciary, and this affects the exercise of a whole range of human rights, from freedom of speech – particularly media freedom – to private property. article 26 of the venezuelan constitution is very clear, stating that the judiciary is independent and the president is the guarantor of this independence. nevertheless, more and more, president hugo chavez is simply dictating through public speeches to the prosecutors and the judges how to act and decide. several judges have become victims of such presidential behaviour. some have been removed from office; others have left the country. the case of judge maria lourdes afiuni is just the most recent and the most prominent in the sense that a judge was imprisoned, accused because of a decision she took. how could the judges dealing with her case act independently when the president of the country, instead of waiting for the trial and the analysis of the evidence by the judiciary, publicly refers to judge afiuni as a bandit and asks for a maximum penalty? maria lourdes afiuni has spent her last seven months in a place where her physical integrity and even her life are endangered. she is in a prison with more than 20 female inmates whom she convicted over the years for very severe crimes. there is no doubt this measure was taken to humiliate her and to frighten her. since i do not expect much from the venezuelan courts, i dare to ask president chavez to allow her release. presidente chávez, la jueza afiuni ha de recuperar inmediatamente su libertad. ha de tener un proceso justo sin dilaciones con todas las garantías necesarias para que pueda defenderse de las acusaciones de la fiscalía. esto sería, por su parte, no solamente justo, sino también todo un gesto humanitario.
madam president, democracy in venezuela is in danger and i would like to add another case which relates to the limitation by the government of the freedom of speech and its control of civil society. one recent situation with implications in the entire region is the attempt by venezuela in june 2010 to amend a draft resolution on civil society participation in the organisation of american states. venezuela wanted to make civil society participation subject to domestic law. there is a bad precedent. a similar clause in the treaty on the implementation of the inter-american convention against corruption was used by venezuela to prevent ngos reporting on corruption in this country. the commission and the council must strongly and openly support civil society in venezuela and must watch with great care the upcoming parliamentary elections. the legitimacy of the next parliament is crucial in these times of deteriorating democracy. finally, i would like to add my voice in calling for the release of the judge.
i would like to say again that ensuring human rights has always been a priority for us and continues to be, which is why it is natural to be concerned about the conditions under which such trials are conducted and about the detention regime. i think we need to make sure that this is a fair, transparent process, in accordance with the fundamental rules of the rule of law, but at the same time, i don't think it's appropriate to use cases like this, which we don't always know very well, as a pretext for internal political struggle.
member of the commission. − madam president, the eu is closely following the situation in venezuela. in this regard i would like to note that we share the concerns expressed here about the circumstances of the arrest and detention of judge maría lourdes afiuni and the subsequent statements with regard to her arrest made by the venezuelan authorities. it is important to note that the un special rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers and the un working group on arbitrary detention qualified the arrest of judge maría lourdes afiuni as a deeply disturbing blow to judicial independence. un experts went further by stating that reprisals for exercising their constitutionally guaranteed functions and creating a climate of fear among the judiciary and the lawyers’ profession served no purpose except to undermine the rule of law and obstruct justice, arguing that the immediate and unconditional release of judge afiuni is imperative. the inter-american commission on human rights issued a protective measure in favour of judge maría lourdes afiuni, stressing the responsibility to protect her life and physical integrity and also to transfer her to a safe place. although the venezuelan authorities reported that she has been held separately from the general prison population, as has been mentioned here, she continues to be behind bars at the national institute of feminine orientation, whose inmates could include people she sentenced. in the context of our dialogue with the venezuelan authorities, we have always stressed the importance of fully respecting international obligations and commitments on human rights, including freedom of expression, respect for the rule of law and especially respect for judicial independence. these issues have been firmly raised in the context of our dialogue with the venezuelan authorities and, while the authorities have been arguing that this imprisonment is in conformity with venezuelan legislation, we have felt that this is an issue, based on the judgement of the un and the inter-american commission on human rights and our own judgement, that we are deeply concerned about. we are following the tendency of political polarisation re-emerging in the country with concern. the september legislative elections are widely seen as a milestone for the future of the country and it is now timely for the eu to underline the importance that these elections be held in a peaceful, transparent and fully democratic environment. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that the eu encourages all actors to engage in the electoral process in a spirit of tolerance, civil-mindedness and respect for pluralism of opinions. we will continue to follow developments in venezuela closely in the context and based on the foundation of our commitment to support and strengthen democracy and the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms everywhere in the world, including in venezuela. (applause)
in writing. the case of maria lourdes afiuni is extremely shocking for all those who defend the values of democracy and demonstrates that the rule of law is just a meaningless concept in venezuela. the politicization of the judiciary was accentuated with the coming to power of hugo chávez. courts do not usually dare to rule against the government, and when they do, the consequences are dramatic. it is unacceptable that a judge who is only doing his duty to guarantee citizens' fundamental rights should be subjected to such reprisals. the venezuelan government must release judge afiuni promptly and cease its attacks on the independence of the judiciary. we must, at the same time, put this case in the perspective of the legislative elections in september. the criminalization of the actions of those who criticize the government must stop, as must all attempts to limit freedom of expression and freedom of the press. the authoritarian drift of the chávez regime is very worrying and i think we should not shy away from saying it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, human trafficking in north korea remains a serious problem. reportedly 80% of north koreans in china end up as trafficking victims. women are particularly vulnerable to prostitution, rape, arranged marriages and bride traffickers. many victims of trafficking are unable to speak chinese and are held as virtual prisoners. the legal status of north koreans and the chinese government’s policy of detaining the refugees and sending them back to north korea increase the refugees’ vulnerability to trafficking for purposes of forced labour and sexual exploitation. they have no protection from the authorities in either china or north korea, and there is little recognition of their plight from the international community. china must change its law to protect the victims of trafficking instead of returning them to north korea. finally, if people are killed, tortured and illegally imprisoned, it is a matter of urgency every day.
the human rights situation in north korea is particularly dire. the government of this country bans all forms of political opposition, democratic elections, freedom of the press, and freedom of religion. we cannot remain indifferent to the suffering of the people of north korea, as they lack access to basic food or humanitarian assistance. i am particularly concerned about the plight of women and children in north korea, as over a third of them suffer from malnutrition. according to reports, over 150,000 north koreans continue to be held in six labor camps. they have no health care and very little food, and the november 2009 monetary reform failed and caused the poverty level of the population to rise. i believe that the european union should support the establishment of a un commission of inquiry to investigate human rights violations in north korea.
human rights violations in north korea are so numerous that it is impossible to compile a complete list. perhaps the most serious of these is the starvation of the population and the differential distribution of food between those close to the regime, the power, and those who are not. according to amnesty international, last year some 9 million north koreans, more than a third of the population, suffered from hunger. the situation of collective punishment is also extremely worrying, sometimes up to three generations of people being sent to prison systems dominated by brutality, torture, forced labour and, as mr tannock said, public executions. most of those sent to these camps are never released, and if they have children, they may spend their entire lives in captivity. in conclusion, although the north korean government has agreed to participate in the un human rights council's universal periodic review, it is serious that it has not yet accepted any of the recommendations it has received in this framework.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to congratulate parliament for undertaking this debate. if you allow me, i would like to recognise the young boy behind seat no 582, because the future of north korea is relevant to the future of our children. it is very sad to record that in the past seven years, since the adoption of the first resolution in the un context condemning the deplorable human rights situation in north korea, very little if any progress towards improvement has been made. the commission fully shares the concerns about the need to address the very serious human rights situation in the country, as expressed in the joint motion for a resolution we are debating today. the eu has been working towards such an improvement in the international context ever since 2003, when it initiated in the geneva commission on human rights the first resolution condemning the situation in the democratic people’s republic of korea, which as many have already mentioned is not very democratic. in addition, the eu continues to raise the issue of human rights in our bilateral political dialogue with north korea. we are also raising it, as a number of speakers have pointed out, in our discussions with china, and specifically the issue of the forced return of north korean citizens who entered china illegally. we will continue to do so. these people cannot simply be regarded as ‘economic migrants’. so many of the elements incorporated in the motion for a resolution are already part of the eu’s current human rights policy with regard to north korea. we very much welcome the convergence of views among members and between the members of parliament and the commission. we fully agree on what needs to be done, including a point that has been made by many speakers that we need to maintain the existing programmes to assist the most vulnerable people in north korea, who are facing tremendous hardship. we should not punish them for the sins of their leaders. we broadly agree on how to go about it but there are three specific points where the commission holds somewhat different views – and i would like to explain what they are and why we have some differences. the first one is the proposal to include in the eu-south korea free trade agreement a clause to monitor north korean workers active in the kaesong industrial complex. the negotiated text for this free trade agreement provides for the possibility of designating outward processing zones. both sides recognise that such zones could promote the goal of peace on the peninsula, but, before a zone can be recognised as such under the free trade agreement, it has to be proposed by one side and considered by a special committee of representatives of both sides. in the current political circumstances, it is unlikely that such a proposal is to be made in the short term, once the free trade agreement has entered into force. however, i would like to assure you that the commission will pursue the ample opportunities to deal with this issue at a later stage. the second proposal contained in the motion for a resolution concerns the possible nomination of an eu special envoy to north korea, and a number of speakers supported this proposal today. the eu is committed to stepping up its contribution to international coordination and the high representative/vice president is very seriously interested in pursuing that. she is, however, now considering all options to do it in the context of two things. one is the review of the mandate of all eu special representatives, and the second is the establishment of the external action service. it would be in this context that the high representative/vice president would pursue increased participation by the eu in international coordination.the third point is a proposal to press for the establishment of a commission of inquiry at the un. the european commission deeply appreciates the rationale of this proposal in the motion for a resolution. at the same time, we believe it would be prudent at this stage to put all our efforts into supporting the mandate of the new, recently appointed un special rapporteur for human rights in north korea, mr marzuki darusman, who has been empowered by the un human rights council to pursue the matter of human rights in north korea. with this in mind, we need to ensure that he has all the back-up to do his job. from the commission’s position, we see this today as the better course in front of us. (applause)
in writing. the human rights and humanitarian situation in north korea remain sensitive issues of concern to the european union as an international actor promoting human rights on a global scale. on the other hand, the united nations, in its resolution of 25 march 2010, expressed concern at the serious violation of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights in the democratic people's republic of korea. the decision by the government of north korea to refuse to cooperate with the un through mechanisms to promote human rights, including through the mandate of the special rapporteur on the humanitarian situation in north korea, is regrettable. the union has a duty to urge north korea to respect human rights. the eu must also act independently to help the people of north korea, both by continuing humanitarian aid programmes and maintaining communication channels within north korea, and by granting asylum to north korean refugees arriving in member states. the appointment of a european union special representative for north korea would allow for closer monitoring of the human rights situation in the country and better coordination of member states' responses to the issue.
the bilateral safeguard clause in the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of korea constitutes a necessary safeguard in case korean imports threaten to cause serious injury to union industry and european jobs. the principle of customs duty drawback, whereby korean companies are allowed to reimburse customs duties for important components, is a particularly sensitive one, which could benefit the latter and significantly affect european competitiveness. the free trade agreement between the european union and korea remains a positive one, as long as it respects the principle of fair competition. in this context, the commission will need to closely monitor the development of exports between south korea and the european union, in particular in sectors considered vulnerable, and act swiftly to remedy any irregularities. the monitoring system must also be strengthened to enable the representatives of the industries concerned, trade unions and social partners, and the european parliament as the direct representative of the citizens of the union, to raise the alarm and to request an investigation. the role of the european parliament in the control system and concerns about customs duty refunds are issues on which the parliament, the council and the european commission will need to find a compromise quickly. in this context, the vote on the report in this parliamentary session is positive and shows parliament's readiness to adopt this regulation as soon as possible.
a particular problem facing farmers is the unfair distribution of profits in the food chain, which affects the existence of adequate income for farmers. there are a large number of semi-subsistence farms producing mainly for their own consumption but very little for the market. inefficiency, high self-consumption of their production, and self-employed agricultural workers are the main characteristics of this type of agriculture. under these conditions, there are farms which will not be able to benefit effectively from the support provided by the common agricultural policy. as agriculture is one of the sectors most affected by the economic crisis, the european commission must provide and ensure measures to encourage farmers to produce sustainably and ethically, and to compensate for the investments made, thus striking a balance for the better functioning of the food supply chain in europe.
in the run-up to the recovery from the economic and financial crisis, the optimal functioning of the food supply chain is of particular importance. with citizens' purchasing power declining, urgent improvements are needed to avoid a spiral of consumer food prices. i believe that the asymmetric reaction of food prices to commodity price fluctuations is mainly related to the number of intermediaries operating along the supply chain. i support the adoption of instruments that promote and support short supply chains and markets where farmers can unload their goods. this will create a direct link between the consumer and the farmer, with the latter getting a larger share of the value of the final price, while the general public enjoys better prices.
in writing. the report prepared by mr bové certainly touches on one of the most sensitive issues of the day. the economic crisis has particularly affected farmers' incomes and measures are needed to bring farms and peasant households back on track. but measures are also needed to modernise them - because only by modernising them can we ensure their competitiveness and a reasonable level of income. i therefore allow myself to express a personal view: i believe that the report should have also dealt with the issue of rural development, which is one of the fundamental solutions to the problems of european agriculture, especially in the new member states.
schengen is a common area of free movement and i consider that romania fulfils the requirements for the areas that have been the subject of those assessments so far. this has been confirmed by all evaluation missions carried out to date, with the evaluation procedure due to be completed by the end of this year. in this context, i strongly believe that romania is able to effectively manage migration flows at the external border of the schengen area, to the standards at which this issue is currently managed by the current schengen member states. this has nothing to do with the movement of european citizens within the european union. eu-level coordination must therefore aim at improving the situation of roma in europe, not at limiting citizens' rights. and i find any connection between the roma issue and other issues, such as romania's accession to the schengen area, unacceptable.
it has been three months since mr tökes laszlo became one of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. since his controversial election, mr tökes has unfortunately confirmed the fears of those who have warned of the risks of electing a fervent promoter of ethnic separatism and a sower of discord in a space where new eu member states are making efforts to heal the wounds of the past and to reconcile in the spirit of a united europe. in his new post as vice president, mr tökes has unfortunately intensified his extremist and chauvinistic messages, going as far as instigating street actions to obtain ethnic territorial autonomy in some areas of romania, which is a serious attack on the integrity of a member state of the european union. therefore, in view of this attitude contrary to european values and norms, i call for the questioning and withdrawal of mr laszlo tökes's qualifications as vice-president of the european parliament.
my intervention concerns the referendum held yesterday in the republic of moldova, where citizens were asked whether they agreed with the direct election of the president, a change that would have unlocked the protracted political crisis in chisinau. the moldovan communists called for a boycott of the referendum and unfortunately their strategy paid off, the referendum could not be validated due to lack of participation. the opponents of the communists, the coalition of democratic parties in chisinau, must overcome this failure and, above all, their pride and make it possible, i believe, for this country to continue on its european path. the november elections are a decisive political test for moldova's rapprochement with our union.
as you have heard, the republic of moldova has been in a political deadlock for over a year. however, we all know that he has made huge strides towards the european union, given the short time he has had. indeed, yesterday's referendum could have lifted the republic of moldova out of the political deadlock and brought it closer to the european union. it was not to be, but nevertheless, i believe that it is not a victory of the communists over the alliance for european integration, but is only a small obstacle on the way of the republic of moldova to the european union. i believe that the republic of moldova should be supported, should be encouraged further, because it has fully shown its european vocation.
our diet has a powerful effect on our physical and mental development and on our long-term health. unhealthy eating is a major contributor to diseases such as diabetes, cancer, and heart disease, so it is important to educate adults, especially children, about proper nutrition. thus, schools can play a vital role in educating children about healthy eating. i would also like to draw attention and raise a red flag about the negative effects of associating toys with junk food. in this respect, we must ensure that the nutritional education and health of our children is brought to the attention of the european commission as soon as possible.
i would like to make a few clarifications on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. nine member states, including romania, a country with a high vulnerability to the effects of globalisation, have not yet accessed the fund. one reason is the restrictive nature of the eligibility criteria, even after their revision in 2009. the egf is a useful instrument as long as it is flexible. however, i would like to point out that the romanian authorities responsible have not yet adopted the legislative framework necessary for access to the egf. and this is happening in the context that, in the last two years, the number of unemployed in romania has been rising continuously, and our country has announced in the summer the most restructuring in the eu. i believe that access to the egf, together with a better absorption of structural and pre-accession funds, could have mitigated the effects of the economic crisis in romania.
given that there are over 20 million businesses in the eu-27, 99% of which are small and medium-sized enterprises, i believe that the interconnection of trade registers is a necessity for the proper functioning of the internal market. as from 1 january 2007, the information contained in trade registers is required to be stored electronically and accessible online in all member states. however, the standards for registers are different, with stakeholders facing different languages, search conditions and structures. i therefore believe that it is necessary for all member states to participate in projects such as the interoperability of trade registers throughout the european union and the european trade register, which in the case of the internal market information system is unanimous. facilitating electronic access to company information could lead to potential annual savings of over eur 160 million. however, these savings could be even greater if the e-invoice initiative were to materialize and become accessible through the single point of access to information.
in writing. the interconnection of member states' trade registers is a step forward towards simplifying the business environment and reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. it is also a useful tool that will lead to cooperation and exchange of information or even to the creation of a common, pan-european database and a single point of access. however, i cannot help but note that, despite the positive effects of this own-initiative report, namely cost reduction, the translation of information into all the official eu languages is - in my view - a solution whose costs far outweigh the benefits. i believe that we must abandon national pride in the language of each member state and promote only one, at most two, really widespread languages (english and french) as languages used in various administrative procedures such as the one which is the subject of this report.
madam president, this report is very important, yet very technical. standardisation of private international law relationships represents the key point of the consolidation of the full single market, and the abolition of exequatur will surely be received with great enthusiasm both by the business community and by legal practitioners. the cost of contract drafting will be lower, and the same will happen with debt recovery costs following lawsuits brought before member state courts. nevertheless, i hereby express regret that the effects of this report do not also extend to authenticated acts. i hope that this omission will be rectified, given the fact that such acts, if they are issued by notaries public empowered by the courts, are treated in all member states – except the uk – in the same way as court decisions.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes the report by mrs parvanova on the social inclusion of women from ethnic minority groups. the commission recognises that this group is particularly exposed to many disadvantages and multiple forms of discrimination in almost all aspects of life, including access to employment, education, health care and housing. the commission underlined the importance of tackling the multiple forms of discrimination faced by women from ethnic minorities in its roadmap for equality between women and men for the period 2006-2010. we must use all the tools at our disposal to support their economic and social integration because we must respect both the values and fundamental rights of the individual and also because it is economically justified in view of demographic developments. in concrete terms, this means ensuring the full enjoyment of rights by applying all relevant eu legislation, including the race directive, making the best possible use of eu structural funds and focusing on minority groups at work at eu level by promoting social inclusion and fighting poverty. the commission will continue to stress the importance of including women from ethnic minorities in its next strategy for equality between women and men, which will be adopted by the commission this month. i am also aware, to quote mrs köstinger, that even in the common agricultural policy the role of women in rural areas is an issue that should be addressed more clearly in the future.
i seem to be one of the few men who takes a stand on this issue, but i'd like to draw attention to some more financial issues. this report, as well as the commission's initiative to declare 2012 the year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, can be a necessary framework for developing new directions, including in cohesion policy and regional development. we can develop and use the studies and analyses discussed in this report to determine new criteria for allocating and supporting regions facing a diverse problem of older women. the number of older women, the types of diseases requiring a particular type of medical or social intervention, family structure and the role of women in caring for the elderly may be elements that the commission may include in the list of those that define the framework for the development of regional development plans at national level. i am particularly pleased with this report and i am sure it will have an impact on the way we approach this issue in other committees.
the population of the european union is ageing, with people aged over 65 accounting for over 17% of the union's population in 2008. however, the increase in life expectancy is closely linked to the availability and accessibility of health services and a decent standard of living. the participation of women as health workers has been historically significant and is increasing. globally, women represent about three quarters of the workforce at community level and in some member states, more than 50% of those studying in medical schools are women. increasing birth rates and job creation are also indispensable for the sustainability of pension systems. providing childcare facilities for children aged 0-6 years is essential for reconciling family life with the professional activity of young mothers. every euro invested in childcare services is worth €6 for society, creating new jobs and reintegrating young mothers into the labour market.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen - or should i say ladies and gentlemen, because unfortunately i find that there are quite a few men present at this debate on women - i would like to thank mrs pietikäinen for her draft report on the role of women in an ageing society. the report deals with a topic relevant to today's demographic challenges and provides a useful analysis based on a multidisciplinary approach. the commission is aware that older women and men face great difficulties in trying to lead an active life, to build up pension rights for their retirement and to age in dignity, while their physical capacities decline. however, older women are particularly vulnerable because of the persistence of stereotyped gender roles, coupled with discrimination in the labour market. the impact of career interruptions or taking time off to care for relatives on women's pension entitlement, combined with the persistent gender pay gap, puts women at a higher risk of poverty in old age than men. the commission has taken several initiatives to draw attention to the needs of ageing societies in the european union, in which older women have a vital role to play. the commission's recent green paper on pensions highlighted the importance of reducing the gender gap, particularly in terms of care, pay and the labour market. the commission intends to continue to highlight the importance of the role of women in an ageing society in the context of its next strategy for equality between women and men for 2010-15, which will be adopted later this month. the commission will also ensure that gender mainstreaming is included in its proposal to designate 2012 as the european year for active ageing. as this is my last speech this evening, let me also thank the interpreters and apologize if i have sometimes spoken too quickly.
europe is facing a serious problem: the population is ageing and this is a reality that requires appropriate measures. in addition, i believe that the potential of older people, which is often overlooked in the member states, should not be neglected. their experience and skills can be used to train young people to teach the next generation in different fields and at different levels of competence. although eu law prohibits age discrimination when it comes to working life, especially for women, situations such as direct or disguised discrimination are common in all member states. as such, i support the proposal to run awareness-raising campaigns at european level to combat existing age discrimination and to maintain solidarity between generations. i believe that the provision of european funds to support projects involving, inter alia, single women and older socially disadvantaged women is beneficial and would be a strong support in combating age discrimination.
most member states are facing deficit and debt problems. legislative proposals have been drawn up at european level. these proposals must be finalised and implemented. only a common financial policy and european economic governance can solve the present situation. i hope the new legislation will force the banking system to participate not only in profit, but also in development and in taking on economic risk. the future budget must take account of the present situation, but not in the sense of cutting the budget. viable means must be found to ensure that money is spent efficiently at national and european level. the value and distribution of the budget shall be based on the requirements of the common policies: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. you said there were millions of jobs missing in europe. there are unspent amounts in the current budget. these sums must be reallocated to the areas that create jobs. on the other hand, member states must be able to transfer funds from the areas where there is insufficient demand to areas where applications have exceeded the allocated amounts. a while ago, here in parliament, i found my office cabinet broken. i didn't consider it a problem of the region or the people, i considered it a problem of a person to be found and punished.
in writing. the main concern of citizens at the moment is to overcome the economic crisis and its negative effects. that is why i strongly support the construction of a european economic governance capable of helping to overcome the crisis. the eu institutions must have effective means of acting. i therefore support the creation of the permanent structures needed for crisis management, as proposed by the european commission. the eu institutions must also monitor compliance with the stability and growth pact, including fiscal discipline. the budgetary and economic decisions of a state have a direct impact on the economic situation of all eu member states (a fact proven in practice, including by the greek crisis, and recognised by the treaty of lisbon). in the future, timely economic analyses by european commission experts would be extremely useful for crisis prevention and resolution. the establishment of the 'european semester' will give member states the chance to benefit from timely professional assessments and analyses of their budgets and macroeconomic performance, and the dialogue between the european commission and member state governments is therefore very useful. i would stress that the structuring of economic governance at european level must help states in difficulty. every crisis is a test of the application of the principles of solidarity and responsibility, a test of the coherence and efficiency of the european union.
in writing. the eu has a social market economy. the eu's economic and social development depends equally on an open, competitive market and on the number and quality of jobs that can provide decent living. the economic and financial crisis has had a dramatic impact on jobs in the eu. the unemployment rate has risen alarmingly over the last two years, from 6.8% (may 2008) to 10% (july 2010). that is why the main concern of european citizens is to keep their jobs. job creation requires substantial investment in areas that can increase the eu's competitiveness. i believe that the union should invest as a priority in the modernisation and development of energy and transport infrastructure, in agriculture, education and health, in economic and social cohesion and in an eco-efficient and competitive industrial policy that ensures sustainable development. however, these priorities should be reflected in both the eu and national budgets. in addition, to increase the eu's competitiveness and create jobs, the eu should set itself the objective of increasing energy efficiency and reducing energy dependence on traditional energy suppliers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the free movement of workers within the union, because i consider that free movement is a fundamental principle of the eu and of the internal market. i call on the commission and the eu council to use the opportunity of the adoption of this regulation and to ask the member states to remove the existing barriers for romanian and bulgarian workers. barriers to the free movement of workers from member states which acceded to the union after 1 may 2004 constitute restrictions on the rights of citizens of those countries and may lead to illegal employment and social dumping. raising these barriers will protect both migrant and indigenous workers equally. achieving this objective ensures that the eu's fundamental principles are upheld and respected, and i hope that both the commission and the member states will show the necessary political will.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has severely affected the economy of the republic of moldova, with per capita income among the lowest in the european union's eastern neighbourhood. given that the eu has pledged its support to the eastern partnership countries and that the new government of the republic of moldova has demonstrated an obvious openness to the european union, i believe that the granting of macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova in the form of a grant of up to eur 90 million is an initiative more than necessary. i would like to mention that the proposed assistance is all the more useful as the precarious economic situation in the republic of moldova has been aggravated by the severe floods it has faced in the summer of this year. it is important to note that in april the intergovernmental agreement was concluded whereby romania offered to grant to the republic of moldova a non-repayable financial aid of eur 100 million, provided for the support of the infrastructure of the republic of moldova. in conclusion, i would like to mention that the eu financial support will support the path of political and economic integration of the republic of moldova into the eu.
in writing. − the republic of moldova is one of the european states most severely affected by the economic crisis. in addition, the authorities in chisinau have been facing political uncertainty for more than a year, which can only accentuate the effects of the economic crisis on the population and on the government finances. the grant of some eur 90 million to moldova, exclusively and supervised for balance of payments and state budget financing, will help moldova to achieve the imf's macroeconomic targets and, in the medium and long term, will enhance the state's credibility on international financial markets. it is welcome that parliament and the commission will impose control mechanisms to ensure that the union grant reaches its destination. moldova is in a difficult political moment and the temptation of populist political gestures may arise in view of the upcoming snap elections. the assurances of prime minister filat and his determination to honour his commitments, which would only produce positive effects on the moldovan economy, are welcome. moldova needs a sign of goodwill from the international community because it's going through a difficult time. it is in the interest of the european union to extend its hand to have an economically and politically stable state on its eastern border.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova. as shadow rapporteur for my political group, i called for the financial aid of up to eur 90 million to be granted as soon as possible. the republic of moldova, a member of the eastern partnership, has been severely affected by the financial and economic crisis. at the same time, it has undertaken important policy reforms, which need to be strengthened and accompanied by the implementation of european standards. i therefore see the granting of this financial support as a way of encouraging the momentum of the reform process.
in writing. − the economy of the republic of moldova has been severely affected by the international financial crisis, which has manifested itself in a deterioration of the budgetary position and an increase in external financing needs. in view of the deteriorating economic situation, the republic of moldova has requested macro-financial assistance from the european union. i voted in favour of this assistance because i believe that the european union must be involved, together with the international monetary fund, the world bank and other international institutions, in alleviating the delicate situation in which the republic of moldova finds itself. this aid will be a real support for the government in chisinau in terms of financing the balance of payments deficit and other budgetary needs. at the same time, bilateral relations between the republic of moldova and the european union will be strengthened, and the union will show its solidarity with a signatory state of the eastern partnership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report presented by our colleague iuliu winkler, because i support the granting of macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova to combat the economic crisis. the european commission proposes to grant a grant of eur 90 million in at least three tranches. eu funding complements the financial support from the imf and the world bank, which the country has called upon. the european union macro-financial assistance is intended to strengthen the momentum of the reform process in the republic of moldova by supporting the government's economic programme and its efforts towards eu accession. the 'alliance for european integration', led by interim president mihai ghimpu and prime minister vlad filat, reaffirmed their commitment to promoting democratic reforms and implementing european standards. as a member of the euronest parliamentary assembly and as a romanian, i express my conviction that it is in the interest of the whole european union to have stable, prosperous and friendly countries in its eastern neighbourhood.
in writing. − in my capacity as epp shadow rapporteur on the report on the association agreement with the republic of moldova, i welcome the adoption by an overwhelming majority of the package on eu macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova. the pro-european government of the republic of moldova is in urgent need of this assistance, while the european parliament vote on it is a strong signal of eu support for the current moldovan authorities and their efforts to mitigate the negative consequences of multiple crises. i hope that, by this means, eu support for the european forces and path of the republic of moldova will become more visible to its people and will reiterate the message that the republic of moldova will keep enjoying concrete eu support in all its endeavours to approximate with eu standards and values such as good governance and the strengthening of democratic institutions. finally, i reiterate my regret at the unacceptably lengthy eu decision-making process for the granting of macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova, and urge the eu institutions to build upon the experiences of this year in order to avoid any such delays in the future.
in writing. − as rapporteur of the micro-financial assistance proposal for the republic of moldova, i welcome the smooth adoption in the plenary sitting, with a relevant majority reflecting the unanimous support of the political group in the ep. the republic of moldova is one of the eastern partnership countries most heavily affected by the global crisis. the assistance contributes to the crisis-recovery efforts and upholds the country's external financing needs. furthermore i'm convinced that contributes to the strengthening of the moldovan reforms and the neighbouring country's efforts towards eu integration. in accordance with the epp group key principles and objectives i tabled amendments in order to strengthen the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the assistance, including in particular public finance management systems in the republic of moldova. the report stipulates the duty of the european commission to inform the ep regularly on developments in the management of the assistance and to provide us with relevant documents. the vote in the ep plenary is characterized by a profound european spirit; i would like to emphasize the unanimous vote obtained on this report in the inta committee. i also wish to thank the afet committee for its support for the fast adoption of this report.
in writing. − the crisis has made growth and employment an immediate priority in the european union. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to make a well-targeted effort to increase employment through policies to promote active ageing and through policies to integrate young people, people with disabilities, legal migrants and other vulnerable groups in the labour market. these policies, together with quality education and vocational training, must be complemented by effective incentives for lifelong learning and the provision of skills development opportunities. another segment that we cannot ignore is the young graduates. we need to promote an intensive partnership between member states and the social partners to support them in finding their first job or to provide them with new opportunities for further training, including apprenticeships. to this end, member states must mobilise and make full use of the community funds made available, in particular the european social fund.
in writing. − all the more so now, when member states are facing a serious economic and social crisis, we need measures to create new jobs. in this context, the role of eu cohesion policy is crucial in developing the job-creating potential of a sustainable economy by reducing regional disparities and creating a society with full employment. we need to encourage regions to use the structural funds to finance national, local and regional projects and the european social fund to create better educational and employment opportunities. the european social fund is the solution for member states that want to invest in skills development, employment and training, retraining, career guidance for the unemployed, with the aim of creating more and better jobs. to support the communities and regions of the member states, we have asked the european commission to fund a pilot project to train and facilitate the exchange of best practice models for those directly involved in the management and implementation of european funds at local and regional level.
in writing. −sustainable development must be based on social justice and eco-efficiency. the transformation of european economies into eco-efficient economies at all levels: local, national, regional and european will lead to profound changes in production, distribution and consumption. support the organisation of awareness and public awareness campaigns to demonstrate that our strategy for the transition to a green, sustainable economy is socially equitable and will lead to increased employment. i stress the need to pay particular attention to biodiversity in the context of creating green jobs across europe, especially in the implementation of the natura 2000 networks. i ask the commission to propose by 2011 a strategy including both legislative and non-legislative measures to promote green jobs, which are a source of development and prosperity for all. i call on the commission and the member states to integrate into all other eu policies policies aimed at re-training workers for green jobs.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the job creation potential of a new sustainable economy because i believe that member states need to move towards a competitive, efficient and low-carbon economy. i therefore call on the union to develop a sustainable industrial policy and to involve the industrial sector in eco-innovation, in order to reduce the dependence of economic growth on the consumption of resources and energy and to reduce polluting emissions. i believe that to create jobs in the 'eco-efficient' economy, we need to invest in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy and green technologies in buildings, transport and agriculture. call for a european employment strategy to achieve a sustainable economy as part of the eu 2020 strategy and draw attention to the role of regional authorities. i also call for the development of effective funding systems and tax incentives to support smes to ensure green innovation and production processes. finally, i believe that employment policy plays an important role in combating poverty and social exclusion and i urge member states to use the egf to promote new skills needed for 'eco-efficient' economic development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i appreciate the progress made in the liberalisation of crossborder services between the eu and switzerland, in particular the positive effects of the agreement on the free movement of persons. the steady increase in the number of eu posted workers and independent service providers operating in switzerland between 2005 and 2009 (according to statistics, around 200 000 cross-border workers from eu or efta countries commute to switzerland for work every day) has proved to be mutually beneficial. i believe that in the next period the swiss government and the cantonal authorities should make use of the eu and eea experience of liberalising the services sector by transposing the services directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause of the eu-korea free trade agreement. the safeguard clause will protect european industries and jobs from possible harm caused by imports from korea. the strict monitoring of the export flow and the prompt remediation of any irregularities concerning the respect of the principle of fair competition are particularly important elements. i therefore believe that parliament must show the council and the commission that it wants this regulation to be adopted as soon as possible.
in writing. − as agriculture is one of the sectors most affected by the economic crisis, i believe that the european commission should provide and ensure measures to encourage farmers to produce sustainably and ethically, but also to compensate for the investments made, thus achieving a balance for the improvement of the functioning of the food supply chain in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bové report, which tackles a serious current problem and suggests useful measures to mitigate it. but i voted against those articles which propose measures which are far from encouraging economic freedom and competitiveness. we must never forget that there is no alternative to a correct economic policy. this principle must also be respected in agriculture, even if this is a specific area. once again, i regret that there is no reference to rural development policies in this report. i hope, however, that those fair and useful measures will find their way into future commission legislative proposals.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it contains concrete proposals for a better functioning of the food chain and for ensuring fair incomes for farmers. improving the functioning of food chains should include differentiating and reviewing hygiene rules; decentralising and simplifying certification and control systems; promoting direct producer-consumer relations and short food supply chains; involving producers and consumers in the development of quality and fair trade criteria and environmental sustainability criteria for public procurement practices in the food sector (food services) as a means of increasing food quality and local economic development, while reducing food transport distance and dependence on agrochemicals; reducing losses along the food chain, most of which are linked to 30% of imports from member states; reviewing the european food chain, which should help 43 million people to develop closer links between local food producers and european food consumers; and closing the gap between the european food supply chain and the food supply chain, which should help 43 million people to achieve a better quality of life.
in writing. - i voted for the bové report because there is a need for more transparency on the european food market. it's true that the supply chain is dysfunctional, and the ones who benefit most from this dysfunction are the speculators. european farmers need a secure and fair income, so we must ensure that they are not always the losers in the food chain, and to do this we must guarantee fair competition.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed to support workers made redundant as a result of the changes taking place in the world economy. moreover, since 2009, the fund has also been intervening in support of those affected by the economic crisis, with a view to reducing the unemployment rate. i personally think it is appropriate to make the fund a permanent instrument of support for jobseekers and to complement the social policies of the member states. this would shift the focus to unlocking the potential of each worker, as a counterbalance to measures to support enterprises. it should also be noted that the globalisation adjustment fund is currently still facing difficulties with respect to mobilisation procedures and execution periods. given that the main problems facing the unemployed are vocational retraining and temporary assistance, measures to simplify the fund are absolutely necessary in order to speed up and make the mobilisation of aid more efficient.
in writing. − the assistance provided by the egf must be dynamic and able to adapt to the constantly changing and often unforeseen situations arising in the market. the purpose of this fund is to provide specific and targeted assistance to facilitate the reintegration into employment of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of serious economic disruptions in the labour market. calls on the member states to involve the social partners and to promote dialogue with the social partners and entrepreneurs from the very beginning of the preparation of egf contribution applications. i also call on the member states to use this fund to promote new skills in greening existing jobs and creating new green jobs and to promote lifelong learning, to enable workers to develop their personal careers and to contribute to improving the union's competitiveness in the context of globalisation. they also support the functioning of this fund after 2013 as an independent fund with its own budget. the commission and the member states need to work closely together to effectively monitor support for multinational companies and to make a strong commitment to creating jobs with rights, with a view to discouraging social dumping.
in writing. − recent eu statistics show that in the last year, due to the economic and financial crisis, the number of unemployed in the eu27 increased by 1.1 million. as a result, the number of calls for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund increased from 18 to 46 between may 2009 and april 2010. also, although the number of applicant member states has increased from 8 to 18, 9 member states have not yet made use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as the effects of the economic crisis on jobs are likely to persist. this is why it is important to ask the commission to carry out the mid-term evaluation of the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in advance and to revise the relevant regulation so as to reduce substantially the duration of the procedure for mobilising the fund. i would also like to draw the commission's attention to the redundancies in the public sector, which do not benefit from the existence of a similar instrument, although these redundancies are a direct consequence of the reduction in public budgets as a result of the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − it is well known that anti-roma attitudes are still widespread in europe, with roma being periodically the target of racist attacks, hate speech, evictions and illegal expulsions by local and central authorities, and i mention in particular the recent expulsion of the roma population by the french authorities. whereas the eu has numerous mechanisms and instruments that can be used to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of european roma citizens, improve their access to quality education within the traditional education system, to jobs, housing and health services, social and public services, while increasing their social inclusion, calls on the member states: - to overcome stereotypical attitudes towards and discrimination against roma women and girls, victims of numerous forms of discrimination on ethnic and gender grounds, especially in relation to their right to education, employment and health services; - fully implement eu directives on anti-discrimination and free movement and promote proactive measures and programmes to support the inclusion of roma in the social, political, economic and educational fields.
in writing. − the ageing population is seen as a future burden on national economies, and the potential of older people is often overlooked. as the population ages, women - who also in romania live longer than men (average life expectancy in 2008 was 76 years for women and 69 years for men) - are more vulnerable, especially in the face of declining extended family incomes. the existence of greater opportunities for parttime work would help to increase the income of older women. older women are more dependent on public and private services and the health care system. i call on the member states to develop services to facilitate long-term care at home, as this would have an impact on women carers and also on the people cared for. quality of care can be ensured through adequate resources and education within the health care sector. i call on member states to promote public policies that pay particular attention to these issues and to ensure adequate resources to reduce the long-term impact. political initiatives should be followed by the formulation of effective programmes and their implementation.
in writing. − european issues are not getting a place on the national press agenda, but are more present in the international media, which, however, are consulted by only a small group of citizens. the lack of interest in what is happening in brussels and strasbourg has also become evident in the low turnout in the european elections. that is, while there is no dominant opinion against the european union. perhaps the attitude of europeans toward the european union could best be described as indifferent. we are faced with a paradoxical situation in that everything that is decided in brussels and strasbourg directly affects the life of every european citizen. the lisbon treaty put the european citizen at the centre and provided for his involvement in the decision-making process at union level, including by giving increased powers to parliament, the only directly elected body. in addition to the proposals put forward in the report debated by the legislative plenary, it is clear that it is within the power of each mep, but also of national politicians, to promote, in a way that everyone can understand, and explain the impact of decisions taken at eu level in our home countries.
in writing. − morten lokkegaard's report, even if it is only an own-initiative report, has brought a new perspective on journalism and the media, components of a society that is constantly changing. our group, supported by alde and the epp, proposed an alternative resolution which removed certain provisions contained in the original report, such as the monitoring of european news broadcast on public and private channels in the member states by the european audiovisual observatory or the setting up of a group of 'independent' journalists in brussels. the final form of the report, although less ambitious than the initial one, is realistic and balanced, which is why i supported it with the other colleagues.
in writing. - " i would like to congratulate mr. lokkegaard on the completion of this conclusive report. communication within the european union is now a key aspect of an integrated european policy, but unfortunately it remains a challenge for the european institutions. indeed, european citizens must know firsthand the reality of decisions taken at the level of the european institutions. however, to do so, they must be given sufficient information on the implications of european decisions at national, regional and local level, and public broadcasters play a very important role in this respect. in addition, the information offices in the territory of the european institutions must act in a much more active and coordinated way to promote communication. i therefore believe it is essential that, at institutional level, the european commission supports and encourages the forms of european communication already existing at national level. moreover, the commission must establish a close link with public broadcasting companies for a more efficient use of the resources committed through the european communication strategy. we all know that member states are responsible for communication, but more involvement and coordination is needed from the european institutions in this area. "
in writing. − technological developments in recent years have forced professionals in many fields to adapt both in terms of skills and competences and in terms of the work they do. mass communication is one of the areas seriously affected by technological innovation. so the boundary between the journalist and his audience is no longer as sharply delineated, the roles have become interchangeable. the draft report on journalism and new media is therefore welcome. it also underlines the european parliament's desire to contribute to the creation of a continent-wide public sphere, to encourage a spirit of participation. i personally strongly believe that we need to encourage journalists to report regularly on the eu institutions and, at the same time, to regularly assess how the new media support the creation of this european public sphere. the european union should also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of the region, in particular through the european regional development fund. at the same time, there is a need for a greater emphasis in the school curriculum on training courses for this new type of journalism. and as a recognition from the european parliament, i support the inclusion of new media in the journalism prize sections that we give out every year.
president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the values and principles of the european union are clearly set out in the treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights, which the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has made binding. respect for the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, are highlighted. the council therefore affirms its commitment to these values. the council has repeatedly expressed its support for measures to promote the integration of the roma. in fact, our heads of state or government, meeting in the european council, also recognised the very special situation of the roma in the union and called on the member states and the union to do everything possible to improve their inclusion. it is ten years since the council adopted a comprehensive directive prohibiting discrimination on grounds of race or ethnic origin in a number of areas. these include conditions of access to employment, vocational training, social protection including social security and health care, education, provision of goods and services including housing. all ethnic groups, and therefore of course the roma, are protected by this directive. the directive also contains a positive action clause, which authorizes member states to maintain or adopt specific measures to prevent or compensate for disadvantages linked to race or ethnic origin. some of you were present at the second european roma summit in cordoba in april. the council welcomed this important event, which brought together the main stakeholders. following the summit in june, the council unanimously adopted conclusions on 'advancing roma integration'. ministers unanimously recognised that a significant proportion of roma live in extreme poverty, discrimination and exclusion, resulting in low levels of education, inadequate housing conditions, poor access to employment and poor health. roma women and girls face particular difficulties, including the risk of multiple discrimination. in many cases, these conditions have deteriorated sharply in recent years and there has been a rise in the rejection of roma and the violent attacks to which they are sometimes subjected. we must take into account that while it is primarily the responsibility of all member states to promote the social and economic integration of the roma, cooperation at european union level also brings significant added value. the council therefore invited the commission and the member states to advance the social and economic integration of the roma, in the context of the decisions taken and the recommendations made by the union institutions, by ensuring the most effective use of existing policies and instruments. responsibility in this area is shared: all actors have a responsibility to work towards the integration of the roma, insofar as their respective competences are concerned, and the council plays its part. the council also stressed the importance of ensuring the active participation of civil society, local authorities and the roma themselves. i would also like to recall the concrete measures recently taken jointly by the european parliament and the council to facilitate the social inclusion of the least favoured citizens. we have recently reached agreement at first reading to amend the provisions governing the european regional development fund, which now allow support for housing improvements in the most severely marginalised communities in europe, which include many roma. the two institutions agreed - and this is crucial - that these interventions should always be part of an integrated approach. this approach includes in particular actions in the fields of education, health, social affairs, employment, security and measures to combat segregation. finally, i would remind you that the european social fund also makes it possible to finance actions against discrimination in general. the union must provide a safe environment in which differences are respected and the most vulnerable protected. this is the stockholm programme, which the european council adopted in december 2009. measures to combat discrimination and xenophobia must be vigorously implemented. the roma community is expressly mentioned in the stockholm programme, which calls for member states to join forces to ensure the full integration of vulnerable groups. like all citizens of the union, roma must enjoy freedom of movement and the right to protection and must not be discriminated against. as our societies grapple with the economic crisis, let us be careful not to scapegoat our fellow citizens who suffer most from exclusion. this requires a clear and honest understanding of the causes, consequences and costs of social exclusion. what can a population do without education, housing, health care, or worse, employment? in order to promote roma integration, we need to define an integrated approach that is in line with the legislation, european values and in which the stakeholders are actively involved. the situation of the roma is included in the trio presidency work programme adopted by the council in december 2009 and the belgian presidency has planned to address the issue of roma integration on several occasions. firstly, at the conference on child poverty, which took place on 2 september last; the european council will be meeting in brussels on 14 and 16 november, and will be discussing the future of the european union. the conference on the homeless scheduled for 9-10 december; the commission will also be present at the meeting of the integrated platform for roma inclusion, scheduled for 7-17 september. finally, as announced at the general affairs council on 26 july, the issue of roma integration will continue to be followed by the council of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking my co-commissioners, lászló andor and cecilia malmström, because there has been very close cooperation between our teams on the roma issue in recent last weeks. this allowed the commission to reach a clear and balanced position on the matter over the summer, and this has received the full backing of the college of commissioners today. i would also like to thank president barroso, with whom i have been working closely on this matter over the summer, in parallel with the evolving situation in france. it was in full agreement with the president that on 25 august i took a public position on the situation of the roma in france and on the need to uphold european law and the rights and the principles laid down in the charter of fundamental rights. the line taken by the commission – which, as politicians, you know perfectly well must always be aware of the dangers of being instrumentalised by national party political debates – has been consistent over the past weeks. firstly, member states are in charge of public order and of the safety of their citizens on their national territory. this means that, in spite of the important right of free movement, member states have to take measures against eu citizens who break the law. there can be no impunity under the umbrella of european free movement principles. under certain conditions, member states can even send eu citizens who have broken the law back home, provided that they observe the principles of proportionality and the procedural safeguards which are written into the eu free movement directive of 2004. secondly, in our european union, no citizen must become the target of repressive action just for belonging to an ethnic minority or to a certain nationality. this is clearly set out in the eu charter of fundamental rights, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of nationality or ethnic origin and which specifically prohibits collective expulsions. so there must be no collective punishment in europe and no stigmatisation of any ethnic group. every human being has their own rights and also their own obligations. thirdly, the social and economic integration of the roma – and you all know that, with 10 to 12 million members, this is the biggest ethnic minority in europe – is a challenge for all 27 member states, both for the countries of origin and for roma host countries. under the subsidiarity rule, it is the responsibility of member states to ensure access to housing, education, health and employment but, at the same time, the eu institutions – for more than a decade now – have developed strategies and policies to support national efforts financially, notably via the european social fund, the pre-accession instrument, and the european regional development fund, which has recently been modified so that housing for roma can be covered by the fund. it is very important to stress that, for the commission, the social and economic integration of the roma is not an issue just for the month of august. it is an issue for every day and for every year. commissioner andor and i presented earlier this year, on 7 april, a strategic roma communication – the first ever in the european union. on the basis of that, we had a ministerial meeting in córdoba, together with the roma associations. as president barroso said this morning, there were only three ministers present at that meeting. the main legal and political issues raised by the measures taken by france this summer have been well summarised in a detailed note which commissioner andor, commissioner malmström and i presented to the college of commissioners last week and which was endorsed today. allow me to update you on where we stand today. first of all, thanks to a very intense dialogue between the commission and the french authorities over the past weeks, i see an important development. i viewed it as crucial that it was made clear in france that there was no intention to target actions against the roma community, because such targeted action would have been incompatible with the fundamental values and rights on which the european union is founded. that is why it was so important that minister éric besson came to a meeting in brussels with cecilia malmström and myself last week. he assured us publicly that the french authorities would treat all citizens in the same way, that there was no targeted action against the roma or any other group, and that the french authorities would do their best to act scrupulously in line with eu law. i see this assurance given by a french minister as a very positive development. in the meantime, the commission’s services – dg justice and the legal service – have continued to check at a technical level with the french authorities since last friday to see if what has been said reflects the legal reality on the ground. the commission services have identified a number of issues where the french authorities will need to give supplementary information, and where they will need active assistance by the commission services to ensure that their action now and in the future is fully in line with eu law. since 2008, the commission has insisted to france that the eu free movement directive must be fully implemented, including the procedural and substantive safeguards in that directive which had not been fully implemented in french legislation. even though these safeguards are partly a reality in france because of the case law which the courts use – and you have seen lately that the courts have decided on the basis of the eu directive although this eu directive has not been implemented in french law – we have been very clear with the french authorities in saying that legislative implementation will enhance legal certainty in free movement situations similar to the ones experienced this summer. that is why, after the meeting of the college today, i sent a letter to the french authorities insisting on those aspects. it goes without saying that other member states which are in a similar situation will also get similar assistance. an important lesson to draw from the developments of this summer is that roma integration is a challenge that must be kept on the political agenda of all member states. that is why, with cecilia malmström and lászló andor, i have agreed on five actions, which the college of commissioners has just approved. firstly, in order ensure the conformity of all member state measures taken regarding the roma with eu law on free movement, non-discrimination and the charter of fundamental rights, we will monitor and assess the progress made on these questions. secondly, we will establish a roma task force at senior level which will analyse the follow-up given by member states to the commission’s strategic roma communication of 7 april. this will in particular streamline, assess and benchmark the use and effectiveness of eu funding for roma integration in all member states and identify underpinning deficiencies in the use of those funds. we are we doing this simply because we want to know and to have proof of instances where these funds are (a) not being used and (b) if they are being used, are not being properly implemented. the first findings of this task force will be submitted to the college before the end of the year, and i will keep parliament and the council informed on these findings. thirdly, i am calling on the presidency to hold a jumbo jha, security and social affairs council as soon as possible in order to identify a more targeted use of national and complementary eu funding to promote social and economic integration of the roma. that council meeting should be followed by yearly meetings at ministerial level because we have had cold experience of member states not taking responsibility for changing things on their territory for themselves. we have to bring them together, officially and publicly, and we have to push them in the right direction. fourthly, i will call on future presidencies of the council to address the priorities identified in the roadmap agreed last june by the european platform on roma inclusion. in that context, dialogue with representatives of the roma community should be intensified. the next platform will take place under the hungarian presidency. fifthly, we will call also on the member states to look into the issue of human trafficking, to which roma are particularly vulnerable, with the assistance of the commission and, if necessary, with europol and eurojust where appropriate. i will now pass the floor to lászló andor to speak on the important subject of the use of the european social fund for roma integration.
member of the commission. − mr president, as vice-president reding has just pointed out, the european union is based on fundamental rights and values, and the commission is fully committed to protecting the fundamental rights of the roma and their full social and economic integration into our societies. the second point i want to stress is that roma inclusion is a joint responsibility of the european union and the member states. successful social and economic integration of the roma calls for a sustained commitment, based on cooperation between all concerned: the commission, the member states, local governments, ngos and international organisations. the commission did not wait for the recent, very unfortunate, events to spur it into action. on 7 april this year, the commission outlined a strategic and comprehensive approach in its first ever policy communication on the social and economic integration of the roma in europe. this sets priorities for action by the commission and the member states in a wide range of areas of relevance to roma integration. the commission is committed to improving the effectiveness of instruments and policies in terms of both content and process, and stresses the importance of closer cooperation between eu, national and international players and roma communities. the communication also reaffirms the commission’s commitment to encouraging and assisting the member states to make full use of the potential of the structural funds to support the social and economic integration of the roma. eu structural funds offer a very useful financial lever for supporting national efforts to improve the situation of the roma. of the 27 member states, 12 member states – including old and relatively new member states – have support programmes in place targeting the roma, among other vulnerable groups, for a total of eur 17.5 billion, including eur 13.3 billion from the european social fund. examples of projects include grassroots interventions to promote employment of the roma and the development of a new curriculum of roma studies in schools. in addition, as the vice-president also said, the erdf was amended in may this year and that fund can now be used to support the renovation of housing in rural areas where many roma live. inclusion of the roma is also an important political criterion for membership of the european union, and the eu supports candidate countries and potential candidates in this connection through the pre-accession instruments. the commission is currently implementing or planning projects worth eur 50 million which target the roma exclusively or in part. the commission has convened high-level events in member states with large roma minorities to promote better use of eu funds for integration of the roma. in hungary, this set in motion a dialogue between the national authorities and the roma under the auspices of the commission. a second series of high-level events involving commissioner cioloş and myself will take place in romania in october. lastly, at this house’s request, the commission is implementing a pilot project entitled ‘pan-european coordination of roma integration methods – roma inclusion’. this comprises three components, relating to early childhood education and care, self-employment and micro-loans, and information and awareness-raising activities. related actions began in may 2010. there are eu funds and instruments available to help resolve the delicate legal, human and practical issues involved in roma integration. we in the commission are ready to do our utmost to resolve these. i strongly believe that europe 2020 is the right framework to fight poverty, and thus also to improve the conditions of the roma people in europe. let us stand by our principles, resist easy but false solutions and tackle this issue together in the spirit of solidarity.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the second world war, collective expulsions and deportations were prohibited by international law. humanity had already suffered enough from this monstrous policy. in 2010, france, the cradle of human rights, is using cheating. it takes advantage of the ignorance of europe's most vulnerable population, the roma, and pays 300 euros for an adult and 100 euros for a child, provided they leave french territory. the french government claims that this is a voluntary repatriation, cynically considering that this unworthy purchase of the roma's conscience is humanitarian aid. it is not mentioned that the authorities have taken fingerprints of adults and even children, that many of them have not given their free consent, understanding the consequences, as the un committee against racial discrimination has found, which is a clear violation of european and international law. but this model was already used two years ago by italy, whereas the european commission preferred to remain silent on the matter. and that is why the commission bears its share of responsibility for this new wave of deportations of roma in europe. now the commission must prove that it is really the guardian of the principles and fundamental rights of the european union and its legislation. (applause) i would like to thank
on 24 june this year, in response to a parliamentary question, you confirmed that the fundamental rights agency report painted a bleak picture for the 12 million roma in the european union. if the commission does not take a firm stand on the crisis caused by the ethnic expulsions promoted by the french authorities, the framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia is likely to remain a generous intention. so is the stockholm programme action plan you outlined in your speech. after invoking an alleged increase in ethnic crime, which could not be verified, and figures of hundreds of thousands of roma who would endanger the peace of western cities, french officials could only cite a few hundred citizens drawn from the misery of makeshift camps, whom they persuaded at great cost to voluntarily return to their countries of origin. we must accept that, in addition to the roma in france, there are in romania several hundreds of thousands of roma ignored by their own government, but who cannot be ignored by any strategy for integrating and improving their situation in the context of a united europe. the two situations must be dealt with specifically and inter-conditionally. the question is not whether roma are only romanians or belong to the whole of europe, but how can efforts to integrate at european level be linked to those to improve situations at national level. the committee must move from words, strategies and deeds... (speaker was interrupted)
if the countries of europe have a common denominator, it is not the currency, it is not the economy, it is not civilization, it is the gypsies. as a historian and sociologist i will use the word gypsy, which has nothing pejorative or demeaning; moreover, the term roma is artificial and forced. after all, johann strauss composed exactly one hundred and twenty-five years ago the operetta "the prince of the gypsies", not "the prince of the gypsies". it is unfortunate that the confusion between roma and romanians is perpetuated. i find that the world is still working with racial prejudice, but also with false images and words about the gypsies. there are some who call them roma and hate them, and i call them gypsies and love them. what is happening now is not the fault of the gypsies or my country, romania. the largest migration of gypsies to europe was in 1241, during the great mongol invasion, they were brought to the continent as auxiliary troops of skilled craftsmen. the fact that, after all this time, there are more gypsies in romania than in the rest of europe is due to the successive expulsions and persecutions, in waves, recorded for 500 years in most countries of the old continent. now romania is put on the pillar of infamy for being too tolerant and hospitable. expelling the gypsies from the block is not the answer. of course, it's unpleasant to disturb your comfort, but when crimes are committed, the law must be applied on a case-by-case basis, so no collective punishment. why doesn't the government in paris deport them directly to their home country, india?
discrimination and collective expulsions are prohibited. this is the law that we all support, no matter what political group we come from. the commission must present without delay, clearly and publicly, its analysis of each case and indicate responsibilities and measures. any general association between roma ethnicity and crime leads to racism and discrimination. criminal responsibility is individual and is based on evidence and procedures. but i want to honestly point out the responsibility of everyone, including the romanian authorities, politicians from all political parties, for what they have done and for what they have not done in the last 20 years for this ethnic minority (and for those who do not know, i am a romanian citizen). today we must come together, member states and european institutions, and implement the roma strategy, wherever these people are.
i've seen actions and statements that stigmatize an ethnic group. we have also seen statements which create a negative image of a state or a people, which is contrary to the spirit and principles of europe, and which create populist and xenophobic attitudes which undermine the principles of the union. we cannot accept the use of prejudice against the roma for political purposes; we cannot accept the existence in the european union of first-class citizens and second-class citizens. coordination at eu level should aim to improve the situation of roma, not to restrict citizens' rights. the 12 million roma, gypsies, travellers, gypsies - as they are called in their countries of origin - are a common problem, which needs common solutions, and i consider unacceptable any connection between the roma problem and issues related to accession or schengen visas for romania and bulgaria.
in writing. i am convinced that radical measures cannot solve the problems faced by roma. we need accountability in action and the involvement of all european states in this process, however difficult this effort may seem. roma are european citizens and must enjoy all the fundamental rights guaranteed by european law - the right to establish their domicile and freedom of movement. failure to comply with them in france sets a risky precedent and may have long-term negative effects. i believe that we have an obligation to avoid incriminating and especially criminalizing a particular segment of immigrants, especially since the voluntarily repatriated roma had no criminal record. i also believe that the solution does not lie in the expulsion of roma citizens from one region of europe to another, or, worse, in collective expulsions. we need a united european action on the integration of this minority, a european strategy for the roma. the priority areas of this strategy should be education, health and facilitating access to the labour market. it is essential that we find together concrete solutions for the social inclusion of roma and that we do not allow roma to feel marginalised.
in writing. i would like to emphasise that the expulsions of roma citizens by the french authorities are not necessarily contrary to the treaty. the question must be examined on a case-by-case basis, since european citizens do not have an unconditional right to freedom of movement, but exercise that right in accordance with the provisions of directive 2004/38 which clearly lays down the conditions of residence. moreover, eu citizens can be expelled for reasons of security, public order and public health. the question of the illegality of these measures arises only if roma lawfully staying in the country have been expelled. on the other hand, roma, like other european citizens, have rights as well as obligations. the solution is to develop a coherent and effective european strategy for the social inclusion of roma to enable them to fulfil their citizenship obligations. eliminating discrimination by changing perceptions of roma is another vital element. neither france nor other member states should leave the entire responsibility for resolving the roma situation on romania's shoulders. the media spin in france and the exploitation of expulsions for electoral purposes is completely unconstructive. in this delicate matter we must show solidarity and responsibility, and our ability to do so is a test of the values that the union has affirmed over time.
in writing. i strongly condemn the human rights violation by the french government in the collective expulsion of roma. unfortunately, the model of extremist populism promoted by silvio berlusconi also works in the country that likes to declare itself the homeland of human rights. i would also like to draw the european commission's attention to the fact that its passive attitude towards france's breach of articles 14, 27 and 30 of directive 38/2004 makes it complicit in perpetuating and accentuating discrimination against the largest minority in europe. the situation of the roma is deteriorating both because of the lack of a coordinated european integration policy and because of extremist deviations that compromise european values. i therefore call on the commission to intervene firmly to stop the collective expulsions, in accordance with its powers under article 258 of the treaty on consolidated eu. otherwise, we risk facing the spread of this undemocratic and unworthy behavior, as indicated by statements by representatives of the finnish government and echoes of yesterday's informal ministerial meeting in paris.
in writing. it is clear to everyone that a fundamental right guaranteed to european citizens is to move freely within the eu. another basic right is the right not to be discriminated against on the basis of sex, race, ethnic or social origin, language, religion or political beliefs. i would therefore like to stress that the attempt to link the social integration of certain union citizens to the process of romania or bulgaria's accession to the schengen area is unfounded and unfair. the responsibility for the social integration of roma is not only romania's, bulgaria's or france's, it is europe's. i therefore believe that roma integration must be an eu priority and that joint solutions must be identified by the member states together with the european commission.
in writing. the ep resolution on the expulsion of roma from france is a necessary act in the fight against the abuses of right-wing governments. it is a resolution calling for the respect of a fundamental right of european union citizens, the right to free movement and access to the labour market. although the french authorities claim that the repatriation of the roma was voluntary, there are numerous statements to the contrary. the french government's decisions prove its inability to manage such a situation. politically, the french power is creating a scapegoat from whom it hopes to extract political capital. france needs to rethink its attitude towards immigrants, regardless of their nationality or ethnicity.
in writing. the situation of roma citizens committing crimes in eu countries must be addressed without prejudice and generalising stereotypes and, in particular, based on unacceptable criteria such as ethnicity or the collective approach. with regard to the situation of roma communities, the european commission should ask the member states to expressly provide for measures to help solve their problems, as identified at the level of each state, in partnership with their representative structures. moreover, the commission may encourage such approaches by allocating additional amounts from budget lines that remain unused. the issue of social integration of eu citizens is not related to and does not fall within the scope of the schengen acquis. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of life of the population, including the introduction of a new health insurance system, the introduction of a new health insurance scheme and the introduction of a new health insurance scheme. romania has therefore already proven that it is able to effectively manage migration flows at the external border of the schengen area, to the standards at which this issue is currently managed by the current schengen member states.
in writing. all european citizens must respect national and european laws. roma are european citizens. all member states must comply with their own and community laws. the eu has 27 member states. the reality is that the roma are a special problem. not because of discrimination, but because of their social situation, which is determined by the economic situation in general, but especially by aspects of their own tradition: nomadism and low level of education, which leads to a lack of professional qualifications. if we really want to solve this particular problem, we must develop and implement a european policy applied by all member states. this policy must be based primarily on education. education can provide employment opportunities, which will make a significant contribution to roma social integration.
in writing. the roma are the largest minority, but also the most marginalized community in the european union. their lot will not be improved if the dispute between left and right is shifted from the national to the european level and if, instead of more political responsibility, it produces more social intolerance. roma need inclusion policies at national level, regardless of the country they live in, as well as european intervention when the national level is insufficient, as is the case with communities in migration. on the other hand, the expertise of non-governmental organisations in romania or bulgaria, france or spain should serve as models of good practice for governmental or community actors.
in writing. i join those who have condemned the unacceptable measures taken by the french government against the roma. the roma population is the largest ethnic minority in the european union: we are talking about 10 or 12 million people - a population larger than that of belgium. roma problems are not the problems of one state or another: they are the problems of the european union. until we understand and accept this, any measure taken will be a failure. roma integration is not solved by forced expulsions, violence, 300 euro bonuses or symposia on cultural diversity. continuing with such methods wastes resources and time, the problem deepens, and the roma population is increasingly impoverished, excluded and prone to crime. we need to stop the brutal approaches and look seriously at the causes of their behavior, namely, poor education and health care, blocked access to the labor market, discrimination, ineffective crime control. a clear strategy for integrating these people into society must aim at concrete and long-term effects. we need to do these things together, not endlessly passing blame from one state to another.
in writing. – there are two ways to deal with the roma question. one is to join our socialist and liberal colleagues in saying: we are all racists now! but this would only benefit the moral posturing of the left. it would not be of any help to the roma people. the other way is to deal honestly with the real problem. we should admit that the right to safety and the right to free movement are of equal importance. furthermore, instead of linking the roma problem with romania’s accession to schengen, we should understand that romania did a lot to facilitate roma education and integration. the romanian experience should be built upon – in cooperation with other european states – because the roma problem is not a national problem, but a pan-european reality that requires a pan-european policy.
the flood toll in pakistan is unprecedented. 20 million people have been affected, 2,000 have lost their lives, over 1 million homes have been destroyed, and segments of infrastructure and much of the agricultural land are unusable. the european union could not remain indifferent to this tragedy, especially as some member states, including romania, experienced the violence of this summer's floods. i welcome the firm commitment of the european commission and the member states, which have unlocked €230 million in aid. the eu has thus become pakistan's most important external donor. however, the humanitarian situation remains extremely serious, with long-term implications. i believe that sustainable rehabilitation can only be achieved by growing one's own economy. the eu can help by opening its markets to pakistan.
the european union's response to the pakistani tragedy has indeed been prompt, although, as you said, it is not always as visible, as your visit to the flood-affected areas has demonstrated the european union's solidarity in the face of this humanitarian catastrophe. now the unemployed - and that's about 18 million people - are at greater risk of illness. sadly, the un has received only a third of the requested funds, partly because of reservations expressed by member countries about widespread corruption in pakistan. i think there needs to be a mechanism to control how humanitarian aid is directed directly to the flood victims and not hijacked by local feudal lords, in parallel with the intensification of humanitarian missions. i also believe that the safety of humanitarian workers must be a priority for us in the face of the islamist threat.
in writing. the creation of new jobs in the european union is also dependent on the full liberalisation of the labour market. and here we have the duty as parliamentarians to act. let us ask those member states which still maintain restrictions on the free movement of labour from certain member states. we call on all member states, the european commission and the council to take the necessary measures to make the labour market more flexible, which is still segmented today by too many national restrictions. without this flexibility, the adaptation of the labour market to the business cycle is delayed, made more difficult and with much greater losses for people.
radioactive waste must be handled and stored in the safest possible conditions. cooperation between european, national, regional and local authorities is essential in this process. i would like to ask the commission what role it sees for local authorities in this process.
member of the commission. − i would just like to refer to this morning’s speech by the president, in which he outlined some new ideas for enhancing skills development and mobility within the european union, especially to the benefit of the young. we have a variety of schemes in that area, and i would like to refer to next week’s youth on the move proposal which will not only focus on mobility, but also on a variety of combined initiatives to improve the employment opportunities of young people – not specifically in greece, though i am sure greece will also benefit from it.
member of the commission. − with only five years left to achieve the millennium development goals by the agreed deadline of 2015, the commission firmly believes that they are still achievable if all partners in the international community demonstrate strong political commitment, implement the necessary policies and take concrete action based on lessons learned. many developing countries have made considerable progress towards the achievement of the goals and are likely to achieve them, but a number of countries could have difficulty in achieving them the united nations high-level plenary meeting in september 2010 certainly represents a challenge, but the commission aims not only for a confirmation of the commitments made in 2000, but also for a concrete and action-oriented outcome which will pave the way for the next five years and help reach the 2015 objectives. the achievement of the millennium development goals is first and foremost the responsibility of each country involved. as regards international support through official development assistance, the european union, as the world’s biggest donor, assumes leadership and sets an example for other partners. based on the proposals made by the commission, eu member states have agreed on a set of ambitious and concrete actions and policies to be implemented between now and 2015. they constitute the eu’s common position in view of the un summit and beyond, and confirm the eu’s firm commitment to supporting the achievement of mdgs globally by 2015. the european council conclusions of june 2010 reaffirm the eu’s commitment to achieve development aid targets, and eu member states agreed to assess progress annually on the basis of the report by the council. a follow-up to these actions will also be carried out annually by the commission. at the un summit in september, the eu can therefore strongly reiterate its commitment to the mdgs, not least to achieving the aid target of 0.7% of gni for development assistance by 2015.
member of the commission. − public support is definitely extremely important, so communication and accountability as regards all development assistance is crucial. the commission is engaged in a number of projects, such as the european development days which i have just mentioned, where we try to communicate what we have achieved. we will put every effort into this. concerning gni, with gni coming down the amount of money – at least in some countries – will definitely be lower. we are now around 0.4% gni, so we need to work hard to achieve 0.7% gni. the commission will certainly stress that we should not decrease the amount of money either in absolute or in relative figures, because we are below what we have ourselves pledged. our credibility very much depends on the level of commitment and delivery on the millennium development goals and official development assistance.
member of the commission. − the political issues to be addressed at the forthcoming eu-africa summit are being prepared in close cooperation with the other institutional eu actors involved, in line with the new institutional set-up under the lisbon treaty. the commission, as one of the motors of the joint africa-eu strategy, will play a key role in defining the agenda of that summit. the european commission expects that the third eu-africa summit, to be held in libya at the end of november 2010, will define in more concrete terms the scope and ambition of political and technical cooperation between the european union and africa in the coming years. in particular, the summit should agree on the substance and working methods of the new joint africa-eu strategy and the action plan for 2011-2013. it is important to remember that the lisbon summit in 2007 was essentially about upgrading africa-eu relations, building on a partnership of equals. the 2010 summit should be oriented towards action and achieving very concrete results. as regards the substance in detail, the commission would like to see the following issues addressed at the summit: – an over-arching theme of growth, job creation and investment, which is crucial for both the eu and africa. this theme will allow leaders to discuss enablers for economic growth in areas like energy efficiency, private sector development and trade, agriculture and food security;– environmental protection, particularly focusing on climate change and biodiversity protection; – peace and security, which is an important issue, including addressing crisis situations, the combating of terrorism, piracy and transnational crime, and the links to governance and human rights. the commission expects a number of leaders from both continents to attend this meeting and to agree upon concrete deliverables, reaching out to all african and european stakeholders, media and citizens. in the margins of the summit, heads of state and government will be able to share their views with representatives of the two parliaments, the private sector and civil society. in addition, the commission plans to engage other representatives of african stakeholders, universities and researchers, youth organizations and local authorities. as with previous summits, these side events will culminate in the adoption of political declarations and/or joint statements by the heads of state and government.
member of the commission. − my job is to encourage member states to supply development aid, and i am fully engaged in that exercise. i believe we can be proud of what we have achieved. without our aid – and we are the biggest aid supplier – there would be a lot more instability in the world and there would be much more poverty. this means that our support and our development aid matters, as the president of mali stated in this auditorium today.
member of the commission. − in 2006 and early 2007 the commission carried out an in-depth assessment of water scarcity and droughts in the european union. following this assessment the commission presented an initial set of policy options to increase water efficiency and water savings in a communication from the commission on ‘addressing the challenge of water scarcity and droughts in the european union’. that was published in july 2007. seven policy options were identified for tackling water scarcity and drought issues: putting the right price tag on water, allocating water and water-related funding more efficiently, improving drought risk management, considering additional water supply infrastructures, fostering water-efficient technologies and practices, fostering the emergence of a water-saving culture in europe, and how to improve knowledge and data collection. these were the seven elements. based on information from member states and on its own research, the commission prepares annual follow-up reports that assess the implementation of these policy options throughout the european union. the commission is also implementing the white paper ‘adapting to climate change: towards a european framework for action’. a further communication on mainstreaming adaptation and mitigation into the key eu policies is foreseen next year. furthermore, the commission intends to launch by 2012 a blueprint for europe’s waters which will be based on a review of the implementation of the water framework directive, a review of the water scarcity and droughts policy and a review of the vulnerability of water resources to climate change. in order to prepare this blueprint the commission is launching a number of activities, including a pilot project on the development of prevention activities to halt desertification in europe and an integrated assessment study of the vulnerability of european water resources to climate change and adaptation measures. droughts and desertification are also addressed by measures through sectoral policies such as rural development under the common agricultural policy and through cohesion policy.
the fight against climate change is a priority for the european union. the effects of climate change are becoming more visible. i would therefore like to ask you what the commission will do to ensure that the budget of the european union reflects this priority and how you will use the mid-term review and the future multiannual financial framework to achieve these objectives.
i will address you in romanian, hoping that my message will be as clear as possible in bucharest, both to the president of the country and to the right-wing government. it is so shocking that after the speech this morning by the president of the european commission, mr jose manuel durao barroso, on the state of the union and our european projects, we are now discussing the state of the media within the union and in particular in a number of countries: the commission has already carried out a number of studies on the effects of the single market on the environment. in italy, where it does, there is a situation of incompatibility between the president of the council and his role as patron of a media empire which exercises a monopoly in that country. commissioner, as your guarantor of the treaties, i will quote you from a document. i quote: "the phenomenon of press campaigns on command, with the aim of denigrating state institutions, by spreading false information about their activity, represents a vulnerability of the romanian state". this document is not part of the hitlerite or stalinist doctrine. it belongs to a text that has the force of law, if it is adopted by the parliament of romania and was drafted under the title of "national security strategy of romania" under the command of president traian basescu. i am referring specifically to article 6 (2), point 10, "vulnerabilities. this document, while mentioning the challenges to national security, in fact considers that freedom of the press and freedom of opinion, which are otherwise fundamental rights of each member state of the union, in fact represent a threat to national security. the wording of this article is arbitrary, abusive, discredits the work. finally, commissioner, i would like to inform you that two petitions have already been submitted to the european parliament and that the largest romanian journalists' union, mediasind, has submitted a petition. you know, as i do, that the european court's 1978 handyside judgment is part of the fundamental charter of human rights, in fact part of the treaty system of the union.
regimes that violate democratic norms always consider freedom of speech and the press a greater enemy than political opposition and try in every way to silence it. recent trends in europe are worrying. in my own country, romania, the press is no longer considered a watchdog of government and society's actions, but a vulnerability. a president and a government that detests critical voices have decided that the press and campaigns, which could contribute to the decline of the credibility of public institutions, represent vulnerabilities of national security. so if journalists were to reveal that a minister in a ministry, say sports or tourism, had misused public money, spent it irresponsibly or even culpably, it could lead to a weakening of the credibility of the ministry, implicitly of the government and the national security of the country. to avoid being accused, the press should never criticize a public institution again, but keep silent. does the european convention on human rights still matter? does the charter of fundamental rights of the european union still matter? well, it matters and it's time that such practices of intimidating the press stop and that the european commission behaves as a true guardian of the rights and principles on which the european union is built.
i join those who support freedom of speech and freedom of the press. there is no democracy without freedom of speech. i would also like to remind you of the sacred rule that the press has built itself on, also in democracies: opinions are free, facts are sacred. as for romania, i'm happy to tell you that neither insult nor slander are crimes anymore since 2006, they were removed from the penal code by a right-wing government. so no journalist is subject to any kind of criminal sanction, even in the unfortunate situation of spreading false information in bad faith, and i think it's very good that way, journalists don't have to live in fear of criminal sanctions. we have only civil proceedings in romania today. private press trusts take full advantage of the freedom to criticize and challenge, obviously those in power because they always criticize those who exercise power, it's natural. and in romania, there are press trusts that are owned by politicians and are funded by politicians and/or businessmen. as we have seen tonight, this is happening in many other countries in the union. first, this ownership and funding must be transparent. and we have to make sure that the editorial independence of journalists working in such trusts is guaranteed if we are to have a free press.
freedom of the press, we all recognize, is one of the fundamental rights that a democratic society affords its citizens. it is precisely to ensure that it is respected that we have placed freedom of expression among the democratic criteria which every member state or future member of the union must assume. as i have said on other occasions, i unconditionally support absolute freedom of the press, but correlated with maximum responsibility of the editors to correctly inform the public. because we are discussing the case of some eastern countries today, i am able to present the situation in romania. major media trusts are owned by the opposition or by businessmen who support the opposition. the most telling example is the last campaign for the presidential elections, when the incumbent candidate, traian basescu, was attacked in the vast majority of the press. this continues today, day after day. this is only acceptable if the criteria of truthfulness, campaigning on demand, media blackmail, and defamation are respected. i 'm not ... (speaker was interrupted)
in romania, the press, the fourth power in any democratic state, is in agony. it's a record that's hard to beat. so far, about 6,000 journalists have been dismissed from the romanian press, and many publications have closed their doors. how did this come about? through intimidation by the governors, such as the decreeing of press campaigns on vulnerabilities to national security, through the action of the romanian government to force all low-paid media employees to pay additional taxes; and also another aspect, also raised by the secretary general of the european federation of journalists, aidan white, i quote: journalism in romania is under siege due to the country's economic problems and the greed of employers.the future of this profession is in serious danger. employers and authorities must take immediate action to preserve professional journalism. only action at eu level can save the romanian press.
in writing. a free, pluralistic and independent press is an essential component of a democratic society. the romanian media in 2010 is under constraints imposed by an unfavourable economic context, in a country where hostility towards journalists and deliberately perpetuated confusion are elevated to the status of state policies. the current economic crisis has led to the layoff of over 4,000 media employees, the closure of dozens of publications and the collapse of advertising revenues, all of which have left the media vulnerable to political and economic pressures. the slide and lack of impartiality have reduced citizens' trust in the press. as all media regulations in europe that provide for respect for the right to freedom of expression and information are not being properly applied, i ask the member states and the commission to monitor this issue closely.
member of the commission. − madam president, with europe’s societies growing older over the next few decades, we need to find ways of ensuring that older people are given the quality care they need. that is the goal the member states set themselves in the objectives they agreed for healthcare and long-term care at eu level. in addition, the council conclusions of 30 november 2009 called on the commission to develop ‘an action plan for further activities in 2011, which will promote dignity, health and quality of life for older persons’. i am pleased that the forthcoming presidencies, including the hungarian and polish presidencies, intend to take this work forward. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to step up work on the quality of long-term care services, increase knowledge in this area and promote debate at eu level. it has long supported work on long-term care provision as part of the open method of coordination in the area of social protection. the 2009 joint report on social protection and social inclusion confirmed the importance of addressing the issue of workforce shortages in the long-term care sector. identifying and disseminating best practice is one of our main objectives. the commission can act as a catalyst for change and can support national efforts. a commission staff working paper is currently being prepared on long-term care in connection with efforts to promote active, healthy and dignified ageing, and a commission communication is scheduled for 2011. yesterday, the commission adopted the proposal for designating 2012 the european year for active ageing. the year will serve as a framework for raising awareness, identifying and disseminating good practice and, more importantly, encouraging policy-makers and stakeholders at all levels to facilitate active ageing. the aim is to invite these players to commit themselves to specific actions and goals in 2011, the run-up year, so that tangible achievements can be presented during the european year in 2012. i want now to talk about people more concretely. you have rightly pointed out that, in most member states, the bulk of support and care for dependent persons is provided by family and friends, and this will continue to apply over the next few decades. in all countries, women are far more likely to be carers than men. inadequate recognition of the role of informal carers and inadequate support for their contribution can lead to risks of social exclusion. to help remedy this situation, the member states, together with the eu institutions, could consider moves to assess and certify caring skills, including those acquired while caring for dependent relatives, and in household management, which are activities mainly performed by women. progress will depend on efforts by many stakeholders. the commission warmly welcomes the work on care issues carried out by parliament’s interest groups on ageing and on carers and by civil society organisations such as age and eurocarers. the commission is not planning to set up an active ageing observatory, but mutual learning covering active ageing is one of the aims of the european year of active ageing, for which a dedicated web site will be set up. i also want to mention the contributions of the grundtvig programme for adult education, the public health programme and the 2011 european year of volunteering. mrs lynne, you rightly underlined the importance of ethical issues such as those involved in ‘do not resuscitate’ orders. while the commission acknowledges the importance of this issue – and i fully share the moral substance of your question – we sometimes have to express ourselves in legalistic terms, and if we do that in this case, we must say that such matters are exclusively a member state competence and that we do not have the capacity, from the viewpoint of the charter of fundamental rights, to interfere with that member state competence. the commission has taken a number of initiatives – including the major conference it held on 17 march 2008 – to increase knowledge of the elder abuse issue and to promote debate at eu level on how to prevent it. in 2009, the commission implemented a pilot project which led to the selection of two projects. one project investigates how elder abuse can be monitored through public health and long-term care systems. the second seeks to map existing policy approaches and policy frameworks in the european union. both projects started in december 2009 and the findings will be presented in autumn next year. the commission also continues to co-finance a number of actions under the daphne programme and the public health programme. the commission is actively supporting work under way within the social protection committee on a voluntary quality framework for social services. that framework needs to be flexible enough to apply in all the member states at national, regional and local level and to a variety of social services. one big sector where the framework could apply is long-term care. but delivering long-term care is not an easy task on a daily basis, and it is the sad truth that people with heavy care responsibilities often have to give up, or reduce, their hours of paid work because of these commitments. in turn this affects their attractiveness on the labour market, their current income and their future pension rights. our longstanding work with the member states on reconciling family and working life has revealed the importance of adjusting the working conditions of persons who provide informal care. establishing social services that allow for respite care and care leave, and granting specific rights to informal carers in social security schemes, in particular as regards pension entitlement, would also help to encourage and enable more people to provide informal care. as you suggest, poverty, access to care and longevity may be interlinked. we looked at such links in a recent communication on health inequalities. the evidence clearly confirms that differences in income, working and living conditions are reflected in the average health status at all ages. however, we are only at the beginning in terms of policies that effectively break or modify the links between the social hierarchy and the hierarchy of health statuses. what we are calling for is therefore more awareness and research, and more innovative policy development. in addition, we need to promote a health-in-all-policies approach, which is a vital component of any successful strategy.
on behalf of the ppe group. the ageing of european societies is a major problem in all member states, and we must continue to focus on caring for the growing number of older people. the tradition and culture of care for the elderly is different in the southern member states, where cohabitation between generations solves the problem within the family, and in the northern states, where institutionalised care is more widespread. the cost and sustainability of the latter are increasingly in question, however, due to the economic situation and the increased rate of ageing. in many cases, an institutionalised process is very effective in the organisation of ngos and the church in east-central europe. however, this is still only achieved sporadically and the state does not support the development of the care system in this direction. in the uk, a training system for immigrants has successfully solved the problem of placing previously unemployed women in work through care. this practice can obviously be useful in other member states. i welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues berès and lynne. i would particularly like to highlight the part of the text which calls on the commission to draw up a green paper on the best practices and models of the member states, so that each member state can adopt the most appropriate solutions, within its own capabilities, to prevent ill-treatment and abuse of the elderly.
according to recent statistics, by 2050 the number of people aged 65 or over is expected to increase by 70% in the union, and the number of those aged 80 or over by 170%. thus, in 2060, the percentage of eu-27 citizens aged over 65 will reach 30%. the european union needs to find solutions to meet the growing demand for healthcare, adapt health systems to the needs of an ageing population and maintain their viability amid growing labour shortages. the commission, the member states and especially local authorities need to find solutions to adapt housing, public transport and even sectors such as tourism to be able to meet the specific needs of older people. i welcome the adoption of european regulations on the rights of passengers, especially those with reduced mobility, such as the many elderly people who travel by sea, air or rail.
not only the stability and growth pact needs to be reformed, but also the economic and social model as a whole. the economic and social model, a hallmark of the european union, is proving unsustainable today. initially seen as a driver of economic growth and social protection, it has failed to deliver on these expectations. 10% of europeans are unemployed and some member states are still in recession. on the other hand, we have the deficits in the control of economic flows in the union, which have been clearly highlighted by the economic crisis. macroeconomic surveillance of european economies thus becomes a necessity, all the more so as they are closely linked through the single market and the common currency. i therefore welcome the ecofin conclusions on the establishment of a macro-financial surveillance base in the european union, through the creation of the european systemic risk board and the supervisory authorities of the banking, insurance and securities industries, and also the monitoring of national budgets in the framework of a european semester.
first of all, i would like to thank both mrs jeggle and the other colleagues, the fictional rapporteurs, for the good cooperation we have had in the negotiations with the council to reach this compromise. approximately 12 million animals are used in scientific experiments in the european union each year and the need for better protection of these animals has been frequently raised by public opinion. if it were possible, we would all like to see animal testing abandoned, but its use is still necessary to protect human health, animals and the environment. the new provisions of the directive require inspections to be carried out much more frequently than in the past, and a significant number of these inspections do not have to be announced in advance. pre-authorisation is also required for procedures using animals, in particular non-human primates. it also set limits on the suffering to which an animal undergoing scientific procedures may be subjected and proposed restrictions on the use of nonhuman primates. thus, they can now only be used in procedures aimed at the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of potentially fatal human diseases. i am pleased that the final text maintains the obligation to review the directive periodically in the light of scientific progress, and i stress the importance of promoting alternative methods to animal testing, as set out in this draft directive. we all know that the present legislative proposal has been long overdue and i believe that, following negotiations with the council during the swedish and spanish presidencies, we have reached a balanced common position which meets both the needs of the protection of animals used in scientific procedures and those of the scientific community.
not before thanking the rapporteur, mrs jeggle, for her work, i join my colleagues who spoke today against the three amendments to the common position. the compromise is not a perfect one, but it is the best possible formula at the moment. the content of the project was developed after consulting with leading scientists, people who know what they need to do to continue their research. any change to the compromise will lead to a return to the usual procedure, which i don't think serves anyone's interests: that is why i call on all colleagues who will be voting today to reject the three amendments and to allow european research to achieve its best.
in writing. − the european union's concern for the welfare of animals in general and of those used for scientific purposes in particular is commendable, and in the light of the massive enlargement of the european community and technological progress, it was necessary to adopt a new directive to try to unify animal treatment practices. the protection of animals and the good treatment of them is a community value enshrined in a unanimously agreed protocol. the 1985 ec directive sought to eliminate discrepancies between the laws and regulations of the member states concerning the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes. since the adoption of that directive, however, the discrepancies between member states have increased, especially as the union has received new members since then. the resolution adopted by parliament is intended to reduce the differences in the degree of protection of animals used for scientific purposes in the member states, since we are all aware that this is necessary for the protection of human and animal health and the environment. the resolution is a step towards the unanimous goal of completely replacing animal experiments for scientific purposes as soon as this becomes possible with the coming discoveries.
in writing. − as a result of new knowledge on the ethological aspects of the housing of laboratory animals, as well as new applications of animal use, especially in the field of genetic engineering, the revision of directive 86/609/eec became an emergency, although at the time it was a historic achievement and since then significant progress has been made, in particular with regard to the introduction of the principles of 3r (replacement, reduction, refinement). i welcome the extension of the scope of the directive to include sensitive foetal animal forms and certain invertebrate species, as well as fundamental biological research, the introduction of humane slaughter methods, provisions on national inspections, evaluation and authorisation of projects using animals, including their retrospective evaluation, and transparency through the publication of non-technical information on projects, implementation rules and guidelines at national level, as well as implementation reporting and statistical data. i voted for this report because the aim of this proposal is to ensure a level playing field across the eu for industry and the research community, while strengthening the protection of animals still used for scientific purposes.
in writing. − although the economic situation remains fragile in most member states, there are encouraging signs of a recovery in growth. this is why efforts must be concentrated to ensure that the potential for job creation is strengthened and that people are supported in finding and taking up jobs. in april 2010, the european commission proposed a new set of guidelines on employment policy in the member states. together with the broad economic policy guidelines, they form the integrated guidelines for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the four employment guidelines are: improving labour force participation and reducing structural unemployment; promoting social inclusion and combating poverty; improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels; developing a skilled workforce. the report by mr öry supports the approach proposed by the commission, but it brings a number of clarifications and additions, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the current economic crisis will certainly have a profound impact on the labour market in the coming years. the economic recovery and the resumption of economic growth are beginning to show. however, it is expected that the impact of the economic crisis on employment has not yet reached its full potential and therefore current efforts to ensure a sustainable recovery and to strengthen the job creation potential of european economies and to help people to get into work are welcome. european countries also face challenges related to substantial demographic changes, accentuated by the process of globalisation, and the scenario of a steadily declining number of taxpayers in national budgets is not very optimistic. with the 2020 agenda on the table, with targets for the adoption of new technologies that reduce carbon emissions, the employment strategy should be designed not only for the short term, but also for the medium and long term. it is clear that this strategy must be thought through in parallel with measures to stimulate the employment of young people up to the age of 25, an age group currently facing unprecedented unemployment rates.
in writing. − in the framework of the european union's 2020 strategy, romania has committed itself, together with other member states, to achieving a 75% employment rate in europe by 2020. this general objective will result in romania needing to achieve an employment rate of 69-70% by 2020. i would mention that the employment rate in romania in 2010 is 63.6%, compared to a european average of 67.4%. in this context, i call on member states to develop reform programmes that contribute to: - labour force participation through policies to promote gender equality and equal pay, aiming to reduce the pay gap between men and women to 0-5% by 2020; - increasing the employment rate through measures to involve people in working life, in particular for ethnic minorities, including roma; - adopting strict measures to discourage the economy based on undeclared work, which has many negative effects on the european labour market, instead of promoting measures aimed solely at protecting the workforce in the internal markets of the member states; - full opening of labour markets to workers from the new member states.
in writing. the international community has achieved a small but hopeful victory in the case of the iranian woman sentenced to death by the barbaric process of stoning. for now, the sentence has been suspended but that doesn't mean anything definitive. that is why the efforts of all in the international community must continue with the aim of banning the death penalty in countries like iran, where people's lives are at the mercy of archaic and rigid laws. the european union must continue to condemn and put pressure on states where respect for human life does not exist and where human rights mean nothing. there are people in iran who risk their lives and personal security every day fighting for greater freedom and more democratic rights. international organizations and associations are standing by these people, but faced with an oppressive and time-honored regime like that in tehran, the struggle is going to be hard and long. no one should have to pay with freedom for expressing their opinion openly to a regime or to some rulers. the european union must play an active role as an exporter of freedom, respect for people and their rights.
today's debate on the jordan river is very important to my group and i would like to welcome the involvement of our colleague, the vice-president of the european parliament, mrs rodi kratsa, in this matter. i would also like to point out that, as is well known, environmental protection associations have been warning for some time that the ecological situation of the jordan river is critical. it's about a river that seems to die in general indifference, or almost in general indifference. on the other hand, i read in the press that despite the very critical conditions, christians, especially orthodox christians, continue to be baptized in the jordan river. but there is a danger that the river will dry up in 2011, with dramatic consequences for the already fragile ecosystem of the area and, in particular, for the dead sea. in this way, hundreds of thousands of palestinians, jordanians and israelis will be affected by an ecological catastrophe. but beyond the ecological aspect - my colleagues have also stressed this here - an aspect which must of course be dealt with urgently with the help of our union, the situation of the jordan river is of particular importance as a factor in promoting regional cooperation. i believe that a situation must be avoided where water is used unilaterally and with total disregard for the security of the region's water supply. cooperation between coastal states and local communities is therefore essential to rehabilitate this resource, which is essential for economic development. jordan can thus become a symbol of cooperation and coexistence, including cultural coexistence, if there is a firm political will. finally, in the case of jordan, it is important for the resumption of direct palestinian-arab negotiations, since the control of water resources is one of the outstanding issues.
i believe that a resolution, a biased approach to the jordan river situation is inappropriate in the context of the relaunch of peace negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority. middle east water resources are a sensitive subject and should be discussed towards the end of the negotiations, so as not to damage the peace process. the eu must avoid unnecessary politicization of the issue and encourage a regional agreement on the rehabilitation of the jordan river. as i consider the jordan river issue to be a regional issue, i welcome the continued cooperation between the israeli and palestinian authorities on water management. the joint contribution of the two states has led to the recent approval of 61 out of 96 proposed projects. yet, the problem of water scarcity remains unsolved.
the issue of restoring the jordan river is a multi-dimensional one, jordan has a universal significance from a historical and religious point of view. the problems they face are environmental, humanitarian and international security, and these are interconnected. i think the debate here should be about first and foremost saving the river physically and not about condemning one or the other of the parties involved. if the rescue project is successful, all other aspects will follow. in this respect, i believe that the article is from the draft resolution and has no direct connection to the subject in question, which could create unwanted confusion. the european union can and must make a substantial contribution to anticipating the negative impact that the total degradation and ultimately the disappearance of the legendary river may have. the european union must be much more actively involved in the negotiations between the parties involved as a balancing factor.
i would like to ask you what the timetable is and what the council's intentions are with regard to the regulation on the rights of passengers travelling by bus - and i am referring in particular to disabled people and people with reduced mobility.
president of the council. - as i was saying, the process is under way, the working group is meeting, it met again the day before yesterday. it will still have one or the other meeting before the october council and at this stage it is premature to discuss the details of the future application of the debt criterion itself in the framework of the stability and growth pact. on the basis of the outcome of the work of the task force on economic governance, which will report to the october council, the process of adopting or amending european legislation may be initiated as and when appropriate in relation to private debt.
president of the council. − following the publication by the commission of a green paper on a policy review towards a better integration of the trans-european transport network in the service of the common transport policy, the council adopted conclusions in june 2009 welcoming the green paper and inviting the commission to submit to the institutions a proposal for a revision of the ten-t guidelines. the main innovation proposed is the concept of a two-tier planning approach: maintaining a ten-t core consisting of the relatively dense networks of railways, roads, inland waterways, ports and airports, which constitute the overall network, mostly derived from the corresponding national networks, overlaid by a core network, which would embody a genuine european planning perspective, focused on systemic enhancement of the resource efficiency of the transport network and a significant overall reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from transport. last june the council took note of the information provided by the presidency and the commission on the results of the ten-t days, the annual ministerial conference on the transeuropean transport network, held in zaragoza on 8 and 9 june. the main topics discussed were the methodology to be used to re-establish the framework for the planning and implementation of the future ten-t and how to mobilise funds most effectively. a commission public consultation on the future policy of the trans-european transport network developing criteria and conditions for overall and central network planning is currently under way. it will end on 15 september. the results of this consultation will be presented at the ten-t financial committee on 30 september. the planning choices will then be discussed bilaterally, i.e. between the commission and the member state concerned, and multilaterally, in the committees for the revision of the ten-t guidelines. in early 2011, the commission will launch an impact assessment on the proposed revision of the ten-t guidelines. the proposal for the ten-t guidelines is therefore expected in may-june 2011. until this proposal is presented, and in view of the ongoing consultation, i.e. the public inquiry, and the future multilateral and bilateral consultations scheduled for the end of 2010, the belgian presidency obviously cannot make much progress at this stage on the ten-t review.
one of the objectives of the tnt review is to integrate the trans-european transport network with the transport infrastructure of neighbouring countries. i think it's important to speed up this process because this year and early next year we're going to have a mid-term review and it's important that we can also allocate financial resources until 2013 and, of course, be able to plan for the future financial perspective.
author. - in his state of the union address, commission president barroso stressed that the priority was to increase employment at european level. moreover, we have all committed ourselves to achieving the objectives of the european union's strategy for the next 10 years on increasing employment and reducing poverty. today, the plenary of the parliament adopted the employment guidelines and i have invited the council to take them into account. if we really want to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, if we really want europe to become the leader in competitiveness, if we really want a europe that is fair to the well-being of its citizens, then the right to free movement of workers must be respected. the free movement of workers is one of the union's fundamental freedoms and a strong internal market can only be achieved by fully opening up the labour market. according to the commission communication of november 2008, mobility flows have had a significant positive impact on economic growth in the european union. labour mobility in romania and bulgaria has had beneficial effects on the economies of the host member states without significantly affecting the wages and jobs of national nationals. the economic crisis can no longer be invoked as a reason for the application, maintenance of these restrictions on the labour market. the maintenance of these restrictions is a measure to discourage workers from romania and bulgaria from working in the territory of those member states and a factor that leads to circumvention of the legal regulations on the obligation to obtain a work permit, leading to an increase in the incidence of illegal work. the direct result of illegal work is the blocking of access to rights under the european system for the coordination of social security schemes. romania and bulgaria consider that, in the current european economic context, the removal of barriers to the free movement of workers within the union will significantly contribute to increasing the european union's capacity to respond to new challenges. commissioner, i would like to ask you, because i want this european commission to be our ally and to provide institutional frontal aid, what measures will you take to encourage member states which still apply restrictions to completely dismantle the labour market?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am somewhat satisfied that mr barroso announced on tuesday that deepening the single market was at the top of his agenda. twenty-four years after the single european act and eighteen years after it was due for completion, the single market is still not a fully-fledged reality. to quote mr barroso: ‘only 8% of europe’s 20 million smes engage in cross-border trade’. the monti report identifies 150 barriers within the european union that impede the free movement of people, goods, capital and services. this so-called ‘single market’ seems to me more like a french gruyere! mr barroso is now selling us the idea of a single market act and is calling for a relaunch of mr delors’ european idea. let me refresh our minds about european history: if we want to create a single market effectively based on the principle of the free movement of people, goods, capital and services; if we want to avoid economic nationalism as a backlash against economic crisis; and if we want to be the most competitive economy and to boost competitiveness and create more jobs and growth, then our first and utmost priority should be to lift these unjustifiable barriers to the free movement of workers imposed on romania, bulgaria and the ten new member states, which are based on irrational fears that have not proven justified. the commission must be extremely stringent with member states that choose to maintain transitory restrictions. these will have to be justified on the basis of sound economic data. the alleged vulnerability, or serious disturbances, of national labour markets will have to be proven on the basis of rational figures and will have to be scrutinised on the basis of statistics and facts. if mr barroso wants to relaunch the single market, then it is about time we acted according to our words. it is about time to tear down these shameful walls of economic protectionism and nationalism.
mr president, the current economic crisis requires resolute action towards the effective completion of the internal market. if we are not ready to open our markets, including the labour market, to all european citizens, the losses will be higher than the gains. recent studies undertaken by the european commission have proved that opening our labour market will be beneficial and that worries concerning job losses due to labour migration are totally unfounded. this sort of scaremongering has been proved wrong again and again. in 2006, british experts estimated that 300 000 romanians would flood britain in search of jobs. they are still looking for them. nothing of the kind happened. the truth is that there is no rational reason to maintain the labour barrier for romanian and bulgarian workers. past experience shows that workers from eastern member states fill a gap in the labour market and take jobs that are not wanted or are not fully covered by the local workforce. moreover, there is no way romanians and bulgarians will arrive in western europe to take advantage of its generous welfare system. both romania and bulgaria have high enrolment rates in secondary and tertiary education. both countries have a highly skilled resilient workforce. if the eu wants to make full use of its resources in these times of crisis, then political trust and economic openness should be properly established between member states. to quote president barroso’s speech of two days ago in this house, ‘we either swim together or sink separately.’ to paraphrase this, we either work together or get unemployed separately.
mr president, i confess i would be better off speaking in my own language, but listening to the commissioner’s answer i have decided to forget about my prepared notes and to speak in english. this is firstly because i think we would like the commissioner to understand us directly, rather than via the interpreters; and secondly because otherwise i suppose that we will mostly be hearing romanian and bulgarian during this late debate in the chamber tonight. commissioner, you mentioned that several studies have shown that after the accession of the countries from eastern and central europe, the problems were not in the countries where the workers were accepted. in fact it was quite the opposite: they actually had a positive impact and gdp increased, so there is no fear about an influx of workers from these countries. the fact that you also mentioned countries other than romania and bulgaria is no comfort at all for us. in fact it is quite the opposite: it shows that there is discrimination against even more eu citizens. i have to confess that i was surprised when you said that it is up to the member states. if we cannot speak about a single market without mentioning the labour market, and if we all admit that this is fundamental right, then how can it be up to the member states? we know that the enforcement of fundamental rights lies within the european union’s sphere of responsibility, so the principle of subsidiarity does not apply. so i honestly think that the commission should do much more to convince the member states to lift these restrictions, which are a discredit the european union.
the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental principles of the union. the completion of the internal market is based on the free movement of workers and labour mobility is an essential condition for reducing unemployment in the union. the economic crisis must not be used as a pretext for continuing to apply the transitional measures restricting the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. i also draw attention to the fact that member states must give priority to eu nationals over labour from outside the union. the existing barriers to the free movement of workers in romania and bulgaria may lead to undeclared work and social dumping. raising these barriers will protect both migrant and indigenous workers equally. the fact that in the states where these barriers exist there have even been calls from the business community for the full opening up of the labour market shows that employers and trade unions have understood that lifting these barriers means equal pay for equal work and equal knowledge, and, above all, it means that every worker will pay taxes and taxes and, above all, contribute to the social security and health care system. the european union is first and foremost about 500 million european citizens and respect for their rights. i call on the commission and the member states to show the political will to remove the barriers to the free movement of workers.
we are discussing a problem, a solution and an attitude which i find difficult to understand on the part of the commission. the labour shortage in western europe and the ageing population is, if you will, offset by the labour force in eastern europe, people who are citizens of the european union, who travel thousands of kilometres to come and work, even for a short period of time, in western countries. there are jobs that spanish, italian, french citizens don't want to do and are done by these workers; basically, western european problems are solved by workers coming from eastern european countries. it is difficult to understand the commission's attitude, however, because these issues should be regulated and the rights of these workers should be respected. it is not very clear to anyone now what happens, for example, to the social contributions of those who work in spain or italy after they return to their country of origin.
as has been said here, almost four years after joining the european union, we are witnessing a curtain that challenges not only the project of integration but also a reality summarised in the european commission's recommendation, which, as recently as two years ago, highlighted the positive impact of mobility on the labour market following the accession of romania and bulgaria. the free movement of workers is a fundamental principle and the facts only confirm the absurdity of the restriction imposed on the romanians and bulgarians. the european economy is feeling the impact of an ageing population and labour shortages in certain areas, and labour migration is becoming a necessary solution. at the same time, we have discussed this week the roma crisis in france, which could have been avoided if these european citizens had been able to find work and not been kept on the periphery of society, including through employment bans. sadly, instead of dealing with the causes, some people think that they can solve something by policing the effects. it's a lack of realism that is deceptively intertwined with the hypocrisy of double standards. prostitution, begging and crime are also consequences of a deep poverty of the inability to work. the only viable solution is equal and non-discriminatory treatment for all eu citizens
i would like to express my hope that the restrictions on the access of romanian and bulgarian workers to the european labour market will not be maintained after 2011. i believe that we must not allow certain economic and social fears which are unjustified to be exploited politically and lead to restrictions on the free movement of workers. labour migration from the new member states has contributed to economic growth in the eu and had a limited effect on wages and unemployment in liberalised markets. moreover, during the crisis, mobile workers were even more affected than those in host countries, being the first to lose their jobs. finally, in the light of the debate on the roma problem in france, i believe it is necessary to analyse the degree of integration of migrant workers in the new member states. the adaptation of these to local rules where access to the labour market has been liberalised must also be pursued.
it is imperative that the european union's policies on the free movement of workers recognise the fundamental social rights of european citizens and newcomers to the union, both in their countries of origin and in host countries alike. the european union must immediately adopt a common framework of rules governing the admission of workers from the new member states to the labour market. as long as social policies do not provide safeguards in these areas, large numbers of citizens and workers across the union will find it difficult to accept any legislative proposal to promote legal channels of free movement on the european labour market. the commission must apply the rights and obligations of citizenship of the european union uniformly to both the old and the new member states. i am now referring to the right of free movement of workers in romania and bulgaria.
in writing. the commission's november 2008 report shows that the overall impact of mobility flows since the eu's 2007 enlargement has been positive. at the moment, member states which maintain restrictions on the internal labour market should review their attitude. although, according to the transitional agreements to the accession treaty signed by romania and bulgaria, restrictions on the right to work do not constitute discrimination, it is not normal and moral, in the area of freedom, security and justice, to maintain such restrictions for so long after accession. it is time for the commission to take action to persuade those member states which still maintain restrictions to abandon them. how can we explain to european citizens of romanian and bulgarian nationality that here, we, their chosen ones, can offer equal rights to work to all legal immigrants and we can do nothing for them. the commission and the member states must act in the spirit of european unionism and implement the free movement of its citizens.
we have recently received the alarming news that products from cloned animals in north america have entered the european food chain. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its view that these foods should be banned, for a number of ethical and environmental reasons, and we will continue to have a strong and united position on this during the negotiations on the new food regulations. evidence provided by the european food safety authority and the european group on ethics indicates the existence of serious health problems affecting both cloned animals and their surrogate mothers. at the same time, from an environmental point of view, the impact of increased meat consumption could be devastating, and large numbers of cloned animals would affect natural biodiversity, increasing the vulnerability of animals to epidemics and thus threatening food security. we've already heard the arguments about trade and the rules of the world trade organization. we are told that we cannot ban these foods from entering the european union without breaking our obligations under the wto. but the european union decided to stop products from entering the market when there were doubts about the benefits to consumers, or concerns that consumers were being misled. we will consider all legal options to implement such a ban. moreover, looking at the bigger picture, we should insist that the wto rules also take into account such ethical and environmental considerations. there are serious arguments against food from cloned animals. there is, however, no clear evidence of the benefits they provide. it is time for the commission to propose a concrete solution to this problem, which also takes account of the vision of our forum, which is representative of the european citizens. we cannot allow experiments that jeopardize the health of citizens or the environment.
in writing. the ethical, medical or economic arguments against the consumption of food derived from cloned animals have already been discussed in the european parliament, and the arguments have not lost their validity. there is another argument, at least as important: european citizens do not want 'cloned' products on their plates. they're against the idea of feeding their children food that originated in a genetic experiment lab. a 2008 eurobarometer survey on the subject shows that a majority of europeans oppose cloning animals, especially for food. 84% believe that we do not have enough experience with long-term health and food safety to use cloned animals in food. 75% believe that cloning food for consumption is ethically unacceptable. the percentages are not small, and they send a very clear message. people do not want to consume products obtained by cloning, they do not trust and do not agree with these methods. we must complete and improve community legislation so that there is no longer any possibility of forcing or circumventing the principles or decisions in which we believe.
the liberalisation of postal services is planned for 2011, with the possibility for member states that joined the union after 2004 and those with a special topography to postpone the opening up of the postal services market to competition until 2013. however, in the field of postal services, it is essential that member states ensure that postal items are collected, sorted, transported and delivered to all european citizens, regardless of their location, once a day, at least 5 days a week, at the same price throughout the territory of a member state, in accordance with the universal service obligation. i draw attention to the need for member states, even in this period of crisis, to continue to maintain well-functioning postal networks with a sufficient number of access points, including in rural or sparsely populated areas. the directive on the completion of the internal market for community postal services requires member states to define their own arrangements for financing the universal service, while allowing them sufficient flexibility. the quality of postal services, the provision of decent working conditions for postal workers and the existence of guarantees regarding jobs, training and income of employees depend on this funding. i think it is absolutely essential that the commission should present us with a study by the end of this year on the impact of the liberalization of postal services in the countries which have opened up competition in this field completely. finally, i would draw attention to the need to diversify the activities of postal operators by providing information society services.
i voted for my own group's resolution in the first place because it proposed solutions and not the stigmatisation of a political option. unfortunately, that resolution did not pass. as for the resolution proposed by the socialists and their political friends, i voted for a number of points in the text which i regard as positive, first of all the oral amendment which argued that there was no link between the situation of the roma in europe and romania's integration into the schengen area. i also voted in favour of the second part of paragraph 10, which called for strong horizontal coordination to respond to such situations in the future, and the second part of paragraph 16, which encourages the commission and the member states to respect and implement roma rights. i also voted for recital l, which showed the need for better representation of roma in the member states' government structures and public administration. i couldn't vote on the whole resolution, though, because i consider it to be demagogic.
in writing. − the recent wave of expulsions of ethnic roma from france, packaged in the form of voluntary repatriations, brings an unsolved issue back into the european debate. clearly, deporting them to their home countries will not solve anything. they will be back soon and no one can stop them: each of them is a european citizen, free to move wherever he wants, as long as the provisions of directive 38/2004 are respected. my vote expresses, on the one hand, a minor reservation with regard to the epp/ecd resolution, due to the tacit acceptance that expulsion is not considered a non-solution, but i cannot agree in any way with the joint resolution of the other political groups which, under the empire of political adversity towards the sarkozy government, are trying to make the roma minority a victim of a majority and innocent of the situation in which it has been complacent for centuries. what is happening in france and italy should remind europe that there is a minority of 10-12 million people already pan-european with great integration problems and the solution to hide it behind national borders is wrong. the only viable solution that can produce long-term results is a joint european effort to integrate this minority.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the motion on the situation of roma in europe and the violation of the legal provisions on their free movement. i consider the european parliament's position to be of great use in the european socioeconomic context. measures such as those taken by the french government must be replaced by a common european position, one that is responsible and takes account of both the characteristics of this minority and the right to free movement which they enjoy as european citizens. i hope that this position of the european parliament will strengthen and set a precedent for the application of the framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through criminal law, as well as the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme. the commission must act urgently, in line with the recommendations approved in the resolution, and condemn discriminatory actions against the roma ethnic group. the commission must take seriously its role as the sm's coordinator in implementing strategies and plans for the european integration of roma in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion tabled by the ppe, as it proposes coherent and long-term measures to solve the roma problem in the european union. the ppe motion also explicitly and directly required that romania's entry into the schengen area not be linked to the roma issue. following the rejection of this motion, i voted in favour of the joint motion by alde, pse and others, which - although less comprehensive - represents a largely correct point of view.
in writing. − member states and the european institutions have a duty to develop and support the implementation of the necessary measures to create an appropriate political and social environment for the implementation of measures to include roma communities in education, health, social protection and labour market inclusion. another aspect of interest is the situation of roma women who are victims of double discrimination on the grounds of gender and membership of a minority group. i call on the european commission to develop an inclusive european strategy addressing the specific problems of the transnational roma minority community. it is necessary that, at the level of the community institutions, there is a minimum of institutionalized interest, aimed at combating discrimination and supporting the integration of roma.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation of roma and free movement in the eu because i believe that the situation of the estimated 10-12 million roma requires a european strategy for their integration. the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental principles of the union. european roma citizens, regardless of their nationality, also have the right to move freely within the eu. they, like all european citizens, have rights but also obligations. in the event that a person, regardless of ethnicity or nationality, commits a crime, he will suffer the rigors of the law. crime has no nationality or ethnicity, and i believe that an entire ethnicity or population of a country cannot and should not be stigmatized for the acts committed by some of its members. the treaty of lisbon gives the european charter of fundamental rights the force of law. article 2 of the charter clearly states that the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. i believe that the eu and the member states have a shared responsibility to promote roma integration through an eu roma strategy.
in writing. - i voted against the joint resolution of the left, because this document puts the question of the roma minority in europe on the wrong track. the resolution adopted by the plenary of the parliament is an ideological text, not a concrete action plan. in essence, the resolution initiated by the socialists is a form of hypocrisy masked in "progressive" political discourse. the resolution is trying to validate the idea that we are all racists now. the exception, of course, is left-wing politicians. the resolution was drafted and voted without a good knowledge of the situation of roma in both eastern and western europe. the roma issue is not a national issue, nor can it be described in terms of racial politics. the roma problem has a long european history and remains unsolved. clichés and political agendas, primarily the socialists' clash with the french right-wing administration, will solve nothing but the electoral goals of the left. i voted for the epp resolution precisely because it proposes measures and calls for coordination at european level. the roma problem is not a matter of racism, but of realism. if tackled in terms imposed by the left, the roma problem will soon reappear and trigger new crises in one eu state or another. the result of today's vote is regrettable and unproductive.
in writing. − the ep's decision to adopt a resolution on long-term care for older people is beneficial because these people, as european citizens, must continue to exercise their rights and freedoms, must maintain their place in society and remain in contact with the other generations. i believe that the eu and the member states need to take account of the ageing population in order to cooperate in establishing a sustainable system for financing care for the elderly, as well as adequate training for staff working in the system, with an appropriate level of pay, which will allow the quality of the services provided to be improved. in addition, town and country planning services must take measures to facilitate access for older people and people with reduced mobility to the places where they need it: social services adapted to their needs, social and cultural activities. the competent authorities should regularly inform older persons of their rights and of the evolution of legislation concerning them.
in writing. − i support the resolution on the situation of the jordan river, because it calls for concrete action on an issue that has a direct effect on the economic, social and cultural well-being of the peoples of the region. the severe degradation of the jordan river impacts on all aspects of the livelihood of the communities dependent on the water resources of the river. in calling for jointly planned, cross-border solutions to the issues of pollution and over-exploitation of water resources, the resolution underlines the confidence and peace-building outcomes that can follow on from israeli, palestinian and jordanian cooperation in facing the problem of the river jordan’s degradation. the resolution rightly stresses the need to include plans and proposals for the rehabilitation of the jordan river in the union’s relations with the riparian countries. similarly, given the pressing nature of the problem, the eu should prioritise rehabilitation of the jordan river in its development projects in the region.
omar al-bashir has once again defied the international community, the decision of the kenyan authorities to invite him to the ceremony of promulgation of the new constitution, and especially, not to proceed with the arrest of the sudanese president, is regrettable. the good neighbourly considerations advanced by the kenyan authorities have, of course, no place here. as a state party to the rome statute, kenya has a clear obligation to cooperate with the international criminal court. furthermore, the darfur atrocities case was referred to the court by security council resolution 1593 (2005), adopted under chapter 7. this text is binding and requires all states and international organisations to cooperate fully with the court, as provided for in paragraph 2. the kenyan foreign minister also invoked the decision of non-cooperation with the icc adopted last year by the african union and reiterated in july at the kampala meeting. this justification is also inadmissible, because this decision is incompatible with international law. i believe that the member states of the african union should be the first to cooperate with the icc, to fight against impunity when hate crimes are committed on the african continent.
member of the commission. − madam president, the rome statute system is a key instrument of the international community in combating impunity for the most serious crimes. as this parliament will know, the eu is a long-standing supporter of the international criminal court. witness to this is the promotion of the universality and implementation of the rome statute of the icc in our political dialogue with partner countries. the revised cotonou agreement is another instrument which we have to promote the strengthening of peace and international justice by seeking to ensure that our acp partners ratify the rome statute. we therefore note with concern that, at its july summit, the african union called on its members not to execute the arrest warrants against president al-bashir. the official visit of president al-bashir to chad in july, and kenya’s invitation to al-bashir to attend the ceremony promulgating its new constitution are also worrying signals from our african partners. it is the eu’s view that kenya must balance its legal and political obligations: it must abide by its obligations to the icc as a state party to the rome statute and it must respect its international law obligations, notably un security council resolution 1593. as a supporter of the national accord in kenya, mediated by kofi annan, a key element of which is fighting impunity for the post-election violence, the eu will continue to encourage kenya to cooperate with the icc, including in our article 8 dialogue. we appreciate the fact that kenya has upheld its commitment to cooperate with the icc on internal issues, as demonstrated during the visit of the icc registrar last week. we can but hope that kenya adopts the same behaviour as far as international issues are concerned as well. in keeping with the eu’s position on the icc, on 27 august, the spokesperson of the high representative and vice-president issued a statement expressing concern over kenya’s failure to arrest al-bashir, and the eu delegation to kenya was instructed to undertake a démarche to convey our messages to the government. that was done yesterday. i will convey to the high representative the wish expressed during this debate that this issue be brought up in the context of the next african union-eu meeting.
in writing. – i too condemn the decision of the kenyan authorities not to arrest the president of sudan, against their obligations under international law, and against their duties towards the victims waiting for justice. let us recall that al-bashir is accused by the international criminal court (icc) prosecutor of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide. in southern sudan, several million people were murdered or displaced. what is the message being sent to the victims by kenya’s choice? and what can kenyan citizens and the rest of us expect as regards kenya’s cooperation with the icc in its own case of serious crimes committed following kenya’s 2007 general elections? i have only one message and call: we do not accept impunity. al-bashir must be arrested and handed over to the icc.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, mr al-maleh criticised the syrian authorities in the media and was condemned for spreading false information that weakens national security. his arrest, detention, conviction and sentencing to imprisonment by a military court are in violation of his rights, in particular the right of freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial. they are a threat to all human rights defenders in the country. the point of freedom of expression is to be able to criticise a government, share information publicly and voice opinions without fearing imprisonment. one does not go to prison for the very essence of a speech: to share opinions and ideas which the listener does not share. i therefore join my colleagues in calling upon syria to release mr al-maleh immediately. i ask the commission to raise this issue with the syrian government as a matter of urgency.
we are discussing today a shocking case of human rights violation, emblematic of how an authoritarian state knows how to treat its citizens. the victim's fundamental freedoms were violated, the presumption of innocence was not respected, the right to a fair trial and the right to a defence, including the right to freely choose his own lawyer. but beyond all these very serious irregularities, the essence of this case lies in the indictment of haitham al-maleh, a long-time human rights activist who already in the 1980s had paid for his work in favour of constitutional reforms with another seven years in prison. haitham al-maleh was sentenced this time to three years for a crime of opinion, accused of hurting the nation's morale and feelings, through criticism of the state of emergency, which has been in force for four decades and suspends basic civil rights. so this man, a seriously ill octogenarian, is in danger of ending up in prison for exercising his legitimate right to freedom of expression, guaranteed by the international covenant on civil and political rights, which syria has ratified. given the charges against him are contrary to the right to freedom of expression, as well as his increasingly precarious health, we join the call to the syrian authorities to drop the charges and release haitham al-maleh and the other political prisoners. a general amnesty, an end to the harassment and punishment of human rights defenders, an end to the arrest of political opponents, and the guarantee of the independence of the judiciary should be the first steps towards normalization and democratization.
it is unfortunate that in syria, a country that has seen economic and social changes in the last 10 years, there are still cases of restrictions on freedom of expression. although the syrian constitution guarantees fundamental human rights in principle, mr. al-maleh's case is part of a series of arbitrary arrests and detentions. he has not received a fair trial, has been denied the right to defend himself and continues to be subjected to harsh detention conditions. i am particularly concerned about the serious health condition of mr al-maleh, and therefore call on the syrian authorities to release him unconditionally and to make a firm commitment to respect human rights. finally, i would like to encourage the signing of the association agreement by syria. this agreement contains important elements relating to civil and political rights guaranteed by international law, and its observance would accelerate the process of democratisation and reform.
i join, of course, those who have called here today for the immediate release of haitham al-maleh. as i said, he's an 80-year-old man in frail health, and of course this case must be judged from a humanitarian perspective. beyond the strictly humanitarian aspect of this case, we must take into account the fact that haitham al-maleh was sentenced by a military court, following a trial in which his basic rights were trampled, this sentence being, as already mentioned, clearly in contradiction with international norms. and why is that? because, quite simply, haitham al-maleh has been doing what he has been doing for over four decades, which is, he has been talking about the freedom that is demanded in a critical and very serious and sober way - the improvement of the human condition in this country. i believe that the syrian authorities should look at the prospect of signing the association agreement with the union as an encouragement to improve the overall human rights situation. so it's time for syria to demonstrate that its human rights commitments are not just constructive, but are a practice of this society.
the constant increase in air traffic has led to the need to adapt the legislative framework on air accident investigation. madame de veyrac has obtained an excellent final compromise. the creation of a network of national investigation offices will stimulate the exchange of information, the training of investigators, the creation of a register of good practices and the development of a european accident investigation methodology. it also reduces disparities between member states, improves investigative mechanisms in member states and increases aviation safety. the necessary legal framework for easa's participation in safety investigations has been established. the new legislative framework also provides the necessary balance between the independence of investigators and that of judicial authorities in terms of access to sensitive information and the way in which investigations are coordinated. the rights and assistance of victims and their families are guaranteed. member states are obliged to ensure that a national plan for their assistance is established. member states must use the network to transmit information on civil aviation events that can be analysed and clarified by easa to increase the safety of air transport for the benefit of our citizens.
i congratulate the rapporteur on her agreement at first reading to the regulation on the investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation. member states shall ensure that all air carriers registered in their territory have a victim assistance plan in place for victims and their families. however, i think that the two hours that airlines are required to obtain the passenger list is far too long. i would also like to mention that we welcome the proposal to oblige air carriers serving the european union to apply the provisions of the montreal convention for the unification of certain rules relating to international air transport, even if the state of registry has not ratified that convention. i would like to conclude by pointing out that it is essential for accident prevention and accident investigation that the european union should conclude agreements on civil aviation safety with non-member countries.
the rapporteur. − this is the first readmission agreement since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty to be subject to the assent of the european parliament. on 18 september 2000, the council authorised the european commission to negotiate readmission agreements between the european community and pakistan. after several rounds of negotiations, the agreement was signed in brussels on 26 october 2009 by the european community and pakistan, after almost 10 years. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has made the union the legal successor of the european community, which means that the european parliament must also give its consent to the proposed agreement as from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the committee on foreign affairs gave a favourable opinion and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs voted in favour of the recommendation. the purpose of this agreement is to improve cooperation between the administrative authorities of the requesting and requested states in order to speed up the readmission procedure. in this respect, the agreement lays down the obligation to take back its own nationals and third-country nationals and stateless persons on the basis of full reciprocity and the technical provisions necessary for the readmission procedure. the aim of the agreement is to serve as an important tool in the fight against illegal immigration to the european union and to increase the security of citizens in the union. pakistan is a significant country of origin or transit for migrants who do not, or no longer, fulfil the conditions in force for entry to, presence in, or residence on the territory of any eu member state. the agreement with pakistan is also important from a regional perspective, as it will support the union's efforts to enhance cooperation with other countries in the region. the agreement contains a non-disclosure clause with respect to international law and data protection regulations. the return of natural persons remains the sole responsibility of the competent authority of the member state or pakistan. accordingly, they must comply with the requirements of international law. the agreement provides for the establishment of a joint readmission committee, which may adopt its rules of procedure. given that the joint readmission committee is the only european institution to participate in it, the european parliament asks the commission to provide it with regular information on the activities of the joint readmission committee. the agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the parties have notified each other of the completion of the confirmation procedures. i would like to thank the commission for its statement and for the critical remarks made by my colleagues, and i hope that on the basis of what i have said the house will vote in favour of this convention.
in this debate i would like to refer to the case of one of the third countries, namely the republic of moldova. in 2007, the european parliament ratified the agreement between the republic of moldova and the european community on readmission. this policy has, however, some shortcomings. its impact on the republic of moldova has been under-evaluated and the procedures for negotiating and implementing the agreement have not been sufficiently transparent. during the communist rule from 2001 to 2009, over 600 000 people migrated from the republic of moldova to the eu. one of the causes was the lack of respect for human rights. an example of this is the high number of convictions of moldova at the echr. to tackle these problems, the eu must ensure appropriate trade policies and increased development assistance. in this respect, i believe that the eu's initiative to provide financial assistance to moldova should be continued.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would gladly discuss turkey, libya and moldova with you, but we are running out of time so i will stick to the subject of the debate. however, i would be happy to come back and discuss these issues with you at some other time. as regards pakistan, as some speakers mentioned, we have been discussing this readmission agreement with them for many years. i think you all agree that it is much better to have a european agreement with pakistan instead of several more or less obscure bilateral agreements. as a european agreement it can be monitored, it can be subject to control, it is much more transparent, we can discuss it here in plenary, we have greater leverage on issues such as fundamental rights and human rights, and we have greater legal clarity. i would like to underline what i have already said in my introductory remarks, namely that the eu asylum acquis requires member states to grant a third country national or stateless person international protection where it is established, following an individual examination of the asylum application, that he or she is in need of international protection. the asylum qualification directive – and you all know that i want to strengthen this directive and negotiations are ongoing – specifies relative criteria in that respect and no readmission agreement can release member states from that fundamental obligation and duty. the declaration that we have agreed among us on reporting to parliament and on increased transparency is very important and the commission can firmly commit to following it. as i said, there will be an evaluation of all readmission agreements. this evaluation will form the basis for a future strategy on future readmission and i will be happy to discuss this with you. as regards the question of how we can check what happens to these people, of course the commission has no way of checking on all these individuals. member states do not have the obligation to do that. they do not have the obligation to report to the commission, but we will, in the light of the upcoming evaluation, look at this issue and see how we can cooperate further – member states, ngos, people working on the ground – in order to bring that forward. so, this evaluation is very important. it will define the future readmission policy, but that should not stop us from making progress in the agreement that we have before us. this agreement is important for us to manage our migration policy properly, and, with the promise to come back to you as soon as possible with the evaluation, i would urge you to vote in favour of the admission agreement, tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i hope you won't be too hard on me, i only used three minutes and 20 seconds of my first four minutes. we are deeply moved by what happened in pakistan during the floods, and we are concerned to this day about all the human rights violations that are happening in pakistan and even in the world, but we are even more concerned about the human rights violations in countries that have signed the geneva protocol on the status of refugees. and we are even more concerned that colleagues are defending - and rightly so - the people of pakistan, speaking out against human rights violations, who may not recognize national minorities in their own eu country. i repeat what i said in the debate, that while human rights are important, this convention is not primarily about human rights. it's not just about that, it's about the fact that we are being asked to provide security by eu citizens, security by member states, and let me give you an example of what happened in the uk in may 2010, when two pakistani university students, abid nasser and ahmad faraz khan, were arrested on suspicion of terrorism, and the british court decided that sending the two students back would put their lives at risk and therefore they could stay in the uk. so when we talk about returns, we can of course rightly hold pakistan accountable for human rights violations, but first and foremost we can trust the judges and courts of our member states and make sure that the human rights of the person are not violated. pakistan falls far short of the requirements, but let's not forget that it has had a minority ministry since 2004, and it may be because of your critical comments that it has ratified two international conventions this year, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the 1984 convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i have to say that perhaps that is why it was changed, because you were critical of this convention and ratified it, but perhaps i can also say that if you vote no tomorrow, you will be voting no confidence in the courts of your own member states. so i urge everyone to give pakistan a chance to move forward on this path after nearly ten years of negotiations, of agreement, and hopefully to sign the geneva convention that is still missing.
in writing. i would like to stress first of all the symbolic importance of this first readmission agreement concluded by the european union as an entity. in addition, pakistan is an important partner of the union, especially in the fight against terrorism, and there is a general consensus that the union needs to improve its strategy and become more involved with the country. i believe that a clear and well-established framework for cooperation on readmission with pakistan is necessary. in the absence of this agreement, we run the risk of member states returning illegal immigrants to this country outside any european legal framework and on an ad hoc basis. in that case, the union would have no say and, in particular, no possibility of requesting guarantees as regards respect for fundamental rights. it should be noted that the union will be represented in the joint readmission committee established under article 16 of the agreement, which will allow it to monitor the respect of fundamental rights in the context of readmission. in addition, the non-infringement clause in article 15 addresses concerns about human rights in pakistan.
turkey is the european union's seventh trading partner and the only candidate country to benefit from a customs union with the eu. turkey and the european union therefore enjoy a privileged relationship in which trade and economic exchanges play an important role. in this context, the two partners need to work together to align their trade policies, in particular as regards the conclusion of free trade agreements with third countries. the customs union must also be strengthened by including agricultural products, services and public procurement in the agreement and by resolving the issue of visas for turkish traders wishing to enter the territory of the european union. at a time when the effects of the economic crisis are still being felt, closer economic and trade cooperation between the two regional powers is becoming necessary. the european union must send a clearer signal to turkey in order to be able to convey to it the fundamental european values.
mr president, eu trade and economic relations with turkey are a matter of political significance, too. however, in spite of recognising this fact, the eu finds it increasingly difficult to avoid the impression that it is playing a game of ‘who blinks first’ with turkey. not willing to pay the price of interrupting the admission negotiations, it expects the turks to do so, exhausted by their length and complexity. the good news is that, according to the latest data, the turks are increasingly dissatisfied with the eu, and in spite of the latter’s leading position as turkey’s major economic partner, other partners like russia, china, united arab emirates, the us and iran are catching up fast. therefore, success in our commercial relations with turkey should not obscure the need to finally make up our minds on whether or not to accept turkey into the eu, given the impact of that decision on the international position of the eu.
i would like to start by welcoming the positive result of the constitutional referendum on 12 september. it demonstrates the attachment of the turkish people to the democratic regime, the only one acceptable in europe. the content of this report reaffirms the need for the harmonisation of trade policies between turkey and the eu. implementing effective measures to remove remaining technical barriers within the customs union would support turkey's european path. this country has demonstrated remarkable recovery potential in the economic crisis. although global demand has declined, the volume of foreign trade has doubled, and economic growth is expected to be 7% in the coming years. i would like to stress that relations between romania and turkey have evolved significantly in recent years. the two countries are the most important trading partners in the balkans, with annual trade exceeding $7 billion. in addition, turkey's participation is vital in the implementation of union-wide energy infrastructure development projects such as nabucco.
in writing. – i strongly support the report on trade and economic relations with turkey. furthering the eu and turkey’s interconnectedness through strengthened trade and economic ties will be of great benefit to both sides. the severity of the youth unemployment crisis in turkey has been highlighted; the removal of unnecessary barriers to trade and burdensome procedures will lead to increased trade volumes which will in turn positively impact on employment levels. efforts taken to complete the customs union should be supported, and especially its deepening to include agricultural products. such a development would be a sign of turkish commitment to completing necessary reforms. the resolution also calls for steps that would infuse an element of welcome dynamism into eu-turkey relations.
i would also like to congratulate mrs de lange on her work in setting up and running this dossier. the maintenance of natural ecosystems, the regulation of climate, water and air, soil fertility and the production of food, fuel, fibre, medicines, all depend on biodiversity. the european commission, but especially the member states, must actively engage in the conservation of the natural capital necessary for the sustainable development of communities, in terms of ensuring renewable resources, landscape and recreational value, protection and ensuring the ecological balances necessary to maintain a healthy environment. the good news would be an increase in the amounts allocated to the environmental financial instrument. even if it is still a small part of the union budget. additional investment platforms are needed and we need to find ways to encourage biodiversity-positive investments and, conversely, discourage investments that affect biodiversity, both in the public and private sectors. good practices need to be established in terms of effectiveness and added value of projects. i also share the rapporteur's view that the commission should consider all factors relevant to the sustainability of projects and introduce systematic monitoring of projects.
a very important report, congratulations to the lady reporter. i am referring to the key instrument in the union for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems, which is the natura 2000 network, which covers 18% of the union's land area, and in romania, for example, 17.84%. according to the commission's financial estimates, the annual cost of managing the natura 2000 network is €6.1 billion, for example, for romania €342 million. given that we have to achieve this, we have to protect biodiversity, i believe that the commission should supplement the funds allocated to biodiversity protection in the new multiannual financial framework, starting in 2014, as well as a mid-term evaluation of the current budgetary framework, especially as the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been reached.
i would like to raise an alarm in the context of this report about a worrying situation. recent studies have shown an unprecedented increase in fish mortality in the black sea. the main pollutants affecting marine biodiversity are the dnieper, don, dniester and danube rivers, which each year dump 600,000 tonnes of phosphorus and 340 tonnes of inorganic nitrogen into the black sea. one group of experts estimated that in about 30 years, underwater life could disappear completely from the black sea because of hydrogen sulfide. i believe that these issues should be placed as high on the european agenda as possible and that is why i welcome the report which has been the subject of debate in parliament today and i also congratulate the rapporteur.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first try to answer a couple of topical questions and then make some closing remarks. first, on common rules on biodiversity, the commission is working with the member states and stakeholders on developing guidelines on key sectors affecting nature, for example wind energy, ports and estuaries. we are also planning a communication campaign on natura 2000. the new biodiversity strategy will focus very sharply on strengthening integration with key eu policies affecting biodiversity, agriculture, fisheries and regional development. it aims to develop measurable ambitions and achievable targets to prioritise action to 2020. this will be set out in a new strategy of action by the commission. on soil protection, the commission’s proposal for a framework directive on the table is blocked. we see this as a key gap in our policies for resource use and sustainability. we very much share your concerns on soil degradation and its environmental consequences. rest assured that we are working hard to achieve some forward movement in the council on this. finally, it is comforting to see that the commission and members of parliament have the same views on the urgency and importance of halting biodiversity loss and restoring ecosystem services. we also seem to concur on the reasons that, regretfully, led to our failure to reach our eu 2010 biodiversity target. the appeal of the resolution is clear and unambiguous: we cannot fail again. we cannot face eu citizens in 2020 admitting that the eu did not exhaust all its options in attempting to stop biodiversity from being lost in europe. i will just finish by sharing with members of parliament the slogan of our eu-wide campaign for biodiversity, launched this year, which in this year of biodiversity is ‘we are all in this together’. only together will we be able to make the difference between mass extinction or a planet that is rich and full of the diversity of life. i will pass all your comments to the commissioner responsible for this issue, mr potočnik. as you all know, he is in new york for a major conference on this very topic.
in writing. eco-conditionality is part of the common agricultural policy and has many implications for soil conservation; it is also a control and sanctioning mechanism that leads to a reduction in direct support in the event of non-compliance with the standards set in the field of environment, public health, animal and plant health, and animal welfare. eco-conditionality refers to the requirement to maintain land in good agricultural and environmental condition. i believe that cross compliance should apply to direct income support payments as well as to most environmental payments applied in rural development and that member states should set this at national or regional level, in accordance with a common framework existing at european level.
i would like to point out a very acute problem currently in romania, but which exists, i am convinced, in some form in all the member states of the union. this is a serious situation that affects small businesses and cancels out their chances of developing and recovering from the economic crisis. the national council for small and medium-sized enterprises estimates that 8 out of 10 firms that have received european funding abandon projects for lack of co-financing. this is the case for all programmes with european funding and i believe that, in these circumstances, the union, on the one hand, and the member states, on the other, have a duty to identify and implement new measures to support small businesses, especially given that 70% of the workforce in the union is employed in them.
we will soon begin the mid-term review of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework, which must be the result of interinstitutional cooperation and must offer concrete solutions to mitigate the effects of the economic and financial crisis. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the eu 2020 strategy also provide a new perspective on the mid-term review of the current financial perspective. i ask the commission to be flexible and prompt when, under the erdf regulation, a member state requests the revision of operational programmes or the national strategic reference framework. the current economic crisis could lead to some changes in budgetary priorities, precisely to ensure adequate funding for priority areas. in this context, i call for the promotion of solidarity and efficiency in the field of energy resources, transport and agriculture infrastructure, broadband infrastructure in rural areas, priority areas that can ensure job creation.
social europe is at a turning point, with the echo of austerity measures manifesting itself in various strikes. we have the strike of the employees of education, transport, justice, administration and industry in france, we have the strike of the employees of transport in greece, or we have the strike of the unionists in romania. these social grievances will certainly intensify in the coming months. that is why i believe that our priority must be economic growth, but in close correlation with the creation of new jobs and the protection of existing ones. the responsibility for overcoming the crisis is shared. solidarity must be at the heart of european economic and social policies. increased support should therefore be given to member states that are experiencing difficulties in implementing economic recovery measures in order to avoid a deepening of the gap between member states' economies and to mitigate the painful social impact.
the issue i am addressing is one that concerns respect for the rule of law and professionalism in the administration in romania. at the beginning of 2009, there were changes of prefects and sub-prefects. the decisions appointing them provided that they were to hold those posts on a temporary basis until the competition for the permanent posts had been organised. at the end of september 2009, the executive organised these competitions, the results of which were announced at the beginning of october. the government was supposed to issue final appointment orders for the admissions, but it did not. in this context, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the abuse by the romanian government and ask the romanian government to respect the principles of the rule of law and to promote professionalism in the administration.
there is no doubt that the eu 2020 goals put education and skills development at the forefront. in the current programming period, achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion is the main objective that creates the framework for developing education and skills to harness local resources. each region can be enhanced by ensuring the regional dimension in education and training. there are professions that are still practiced only in certain areas and that are on the verge of disappearing, just because they no longer have a chance to be in national vocational training programmes. the same is true of local resources that are only known in oral history. i argue that regions should be financially supported through appropriate programmes and encouraged in developing the regional component in vocational education and training. that is where european funds can come in, because otherwise many jobs will be lost.
e-commerce is only just beginning and increasing user confidence in the security of transactions is essential for its development and contribution to a better achievement of the internal market. the report highlights the importance of the electronic signature and public key infrastructure for the security of pan-european e-government services and for the security of e-commerce. i believe that there is an urgent need to set up a european system of validation authorities to ensure the cross-border interoperability of electronic signatures. we also call on the commission to take concrete action on the e-invoice initiative to ensure the use of electronic invoices throughout europe by 2020. finally, i hope that by 2015 at least 50% of public procurement will be carried out by electronic means, as agreed at the e-government conference in manchester in 2005.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr arias echeverría, and parliament as a whole for this wide-ranging appraisal of the european e-commerce market. this report serves as a timely reminder that the e-commerce market is not yet a reality for many businesses and consumers. a fragmented market for e-commerce is also a worrying symptom of the missing links within the wider internal market. most consumers have first-hand experience of the internal market when shopping online. it brings them into contact with sellers from all over europe. many sellers, especially smes, are keen to develop new markets thanks to the opportunities opened up by the internet. addressing the obstacles that citizens face in the online world can go a long way towards turning the promise of an integrated internal market into a reality. so what can we do to fill the gaps in the internal market and make e-commerce work better? the commission will reflect carefully on its response to the report. many of the points raised are addressed in various policy domains, including the digital agenda. in short, the report sketches out two avenues that we should explore. first, we need to make life easier and simpler for both consumers and businesses. we can do this by harmonising rules, for example on consumer contracts, and we can streamline procedures to make them less costly for businesses conducting cross-border transactions, for example, concerning waste management fees, copyright levies, vat reporting obligations and invoicing. in this context the commission welcomes the report’s support for a consumers’ rights directive, which is currently being considered in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we will make consumers’ lives easier by enforcing eu legislation, in particular in relation to the services directive, which prohibits geographical discrimination against consumers. improving delivery and payments issues will also be a key factor if we want to develop e-commerce. we can also make it easier for citizens and companies to interact with national administrations by setting up one-stop-shops. the commission has set up a dedicated group of commissioners for the digital agenda to ensure a joined-up approach to policy-making on digital issues. it is also committed to fostering self-regulatory solutions by looking at the possibility of setting up an eu trust mark for e-commerce to complement a code of online rights. second, we need to better enforce rules and monitor the internal market: rights that are not enforced in practice are worthless. alternative dispute resolution, as mentioned in the report, can provide low-cost, simple and quick redress for consumers shopping on the internet. we will explore how best to improve adr in the eu and come forward with a proposal for an eu-wide online dispute resolution system for e-commerce transactions by 2012. we also intend to ensure that consumers in mass-claim situations across the eu are able to obtain compensation. proposals for adr and collective redress are also planned for the end of 2011. knowing that public authorities are working together to keep a close watch on the internal market is a foundation for creating confidence. as part of the consumer protection committee, national authorities regularly cooperate to stamp out unlawful practices on the internet. the commission also monitors the e-commerce market through its yearly consumer markets scoreboard. earlier this month we launched an in-depth study of e-commerce. at the beginning of 2011, a communication will be dedicated to the evaluation of the application of the e-commerce directive and will reflect on its better enforcement. finally, i should like once again to thank everyone who has been involved with this very useful and inspiring report. let me also apologise on behalf of mr dalli, who is unable to be here for personal reasons.
in writing. throughout history, the european union has prospered on trade, exporting and importing from raw materials to finished products all over the world. to steer the single market towards meeting the europe 2020 objectives, we need functioning, well-connected markets where competition and consumer access drive growth and innovation. as the studies show, there are large discrepancies between national and cross-border e-commerce, largely due to the barriers faced by the internal market. the results of the test on online shops are worrying, with around 61% of all cross-border orders failing for various reasons. in this connection, i believe that there is an immediate need to draw up common european standards in this field, which will eliminate the differences between the laws of the member states. we need to focus our efforts on regulating this type of trade and make the most of its potential as part of the effort to increase the european union's global competitiveness.
i think that the report under discussion is welcome and falls within the general initiative of the european parliament to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights. i have great respect for the work of mrs galo, the rapporteur in question. i would like to point out, however, a few points of principle which should have been included in the report. first, a clear distinction should be made between the socioeconomic impact that copyright infringement can have. it is not acceptable that serious crimes with a potential major impact on the health and integrity of the individual should be included in the same category as those with a limited impact of an economic nature. last but not least, provide that internet service providers are not held accountable for the actions of their customers and are not required to monitor and filter traffic on their own networks.
in writing. i appreciate the drafting of this resolution, the provisions of which relate to a large extent to the field of culture and education, of which i am a member of the committee. it is recognised that scientific and technical innovation, as well as cultural industries, make a decisive contribution to the competitiveness of the european economy. the communication of knowledge, the dissemination of information and the facilitation of access to technological progress and cultural products for the widest possible public should form the basis of european education and development policy. to this end, better conditions in terms of costs for consumers, including access to unlimited or low-cost subscription services, in particular in educational, cultural and non-commercial institutions, should be provided. we would thus make a useful distinction between educational use and commercial use, which would obviously lead to stimulating innovation at european level. at the same time, it's important to educate the younger public to understand the stakes of intellectual property. another key aspect is the protection of the income of authors of works, which requires strict rules on the use of these products or services by third parties. and last but not least, there is a need to pay more attention to orphan works, which is not in the draft resolution.
the european union has experienced a significant increase in the number and severity of natural disasters. this summer's floods and forest fires are proof of that. in addition to the loss of life, these disasters caused considerable damage in many member states, affecting, inter alia, infrastructure, economic objectives, agricultural land and elements of the natural and cultural heritage. i stress the particularly important role of cohesion policy in preventing the risk of natural disasters and believe that we must strive to reduce the disparities between european regions, in particular by contributing to improving prevention in regions and member states at risk and with limited financial capacity. the only way for these countries to cope with the damage caused by disasters is through community funding.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank mr ferreira, on behalf of my colleague and friend kristalina georgieva, who was unable to be here this evening, for the quality and the very complete and very balanced nature of this report, which comes at the right time. as you all said, and mr mikolášik in particular, we have seen a rise in disasters outside europe - in pakistan in particular, and also in haiti - but also here in europe, in central europe in particular. and then, you mentioned it in your speeches, madeira, ireland, portugal and, mr jahr, the floods in saxony. but i have not forgotten those of 2002, which led me, when i was commissioner for regional policy, to imagine and finally propose, with the support of mr prodi, the creation of the solidarity fund, which has been well used since its creation. all this is a reminder that we must not have a short memory and that we must constantly improve procedures and strengthen our capacity to respond to disasters, and encourage a policy of prevention - prevention always costs less than repair - to reduce the tragic consequences of these disasters. the commission is committed to maintaining this balanced approach to cover both prevention, preparedness and response. mr ferreira, you stress the importance of community financial instruments to support the action of the member states in the field of prevention. mr luhan mentioned regional funds, which can also support national prevention measures. there is the solidarity fund, the importance of which mr kelly has stressed, and which i think i can say, mrs papadopoulou, is managed objectively, even if the rules governing its commitments can always be assessed. this solidarity fund, which i know quite well, also supports urgent public reparation actions. the commission is currently assessing the effectiveness of all these existing instruments and is working on a catalogue of preventive measures which the member states could consider for community funding. we also want to increase the use of these funds, as i believe mrs patrão neves has requested. investment in prevention is necessary, and this again helps to reduce the cost of repair and reconstruction. as you have said, mr ferreira, we need to develop a methodology for risk mapping. we are working on guidelines to draw on existing national initiatives and use best practice from these to make it a common european framework on specific risks. i am thinking of the forest fires that have struck greece, portugal and spain in recent years and the extreme weather events. we will encourage member states to adopt prevention measures based on good practice by the end of 2012. we have also adopted a green paper on forest protection this year and we are setting up an observatory to analyse the droughts affecting the european union. finally, many actions are underway to improve our knowledge of disasters and their impact, and then we will have the opportunity to debate more about these topics in the future. as you know, the commission - and its president, who asked me in 2004 to work on the idea of a european civil protection force, in the wake of the tsunami and other disasters - will shortly be presenting proposals under the chairmanship of mrs georgieva to strengthen the european union's disaster response capacity. we will also continue to work on proposals to strengthen prevention. that is why i think that what the commission is going to do, what it is going to propose to you, what it is going to propose to the member states, will be to meet the concerns, mr ferreira, that your report very usefully and very effectively highlights in the wake of all these disasters.
in writing. eu member states have suffered a considerable number of disasters in recent years, with 62 requests for financial assistance from 21 different countries. the damage is almost always difficult to calculate, primarily because of the loss of life. member states have the first and foremost responsibility for the protection of their citizens and disaster prevention. this justifies increased cooperation in the field of prevention, better coordination of efforts and a strengthening of solidarity and mutual assistance, especially as disasters tend to affect more the most deprived, who are unable to devote resources to the protection of themselves and their family or property. support the implementation of cooperation between national, regional and local authorities by taking on responsibilities for the disaster management cycle, spatial planning, mapping and risk management, creating a network-forum for the exchange of experiences and prevention measures, with the participation of civil society. it is also appropriate and necessary to create at eu level a financial framework appropriate to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, which would strengthen and articulate existing instruments, including in the fields of cohesion, regional and rural development policies.
in the current economic crisis, which has resulted in high food and fuel prices, millions of people are forced to live in poverty. this poses a major challenge for developing countries. although the eu is the world's largest donor, progress in fighting poverty remains rather slow. it is necessary to rethink development assistance policies, apply innovative financing methods and combat tax evasion in these countries. i hope that at the millennium development goals summit taking place these days, effective mechanisms will be developed to accelerate the process of poverty reduction. as an eu member state, romania has become a donor of development assistance. in april my country granted the republic of moldova a grant of 100 million euros.
member of the commission. - mr president, again on behalf of my colleague mrs georgieva, i would like to thank mrs theocharous for this very comprehensive and also balanced report on a topical subject, since it is one of the subjects being discussed at the highest level of world leaders at the united nations at this very moment. your work rightly highlights a fundamental concern of our international cooperation: poverty reduction and job creation. this election is all the more urgent in the face of the economic and financial crisis and the extremely high increase in the prices of oil, raw materials and - as you have said, mrs băsescu - certain foodstuffs. as the head of financial services, i am personally concerned about this speculation, this hyper-speculation in commodities. i have discussed this matter with my colleague, mr cioloş, this morning in a debate in brussels and we have committed ourselves - in addition to what i have already said this week on the regulation of derived products - to putting in place tools to control and reduce speculation - which i personally find scandalous - on raw materials, especially agricultural, to the detriment of countries with the least autonomy in terms of food self-sufficiency. job creation and social protection have proved to be effective policies for reducing poverty in general, and in particular for combating the negative social impact of the crisis. in april 2009, the commission adopted a communication on the commitment to help developing countries overcome the crisis and the council also supported this initiative. this shows our commitment to employment and to progress in social protection for the most vulnerable. but we must not only react defensively in times of crisis, we must also act in the long term. it seems to me, mr ferreira, that the purpose of your intervention is to act alongside these countries, especially the weakest, in the long term. european ministers have also confirmed their commitment to the millennium development goals through the council conclusions adopted this week and a summit is being held - as you know - in new york at this very moment. the promotion of employment and the social protection policies to which mr mikolášik referred are identified in the council conclusions as an important pillar of the millennium development goals. the commission is convinced that it is simply impossible to combat poverty without taking these two aspects into account and, as you very well point out, madam rapporteur, the most vulnerable must be at the heart of our development efforts. of course, our policies are worthless if they are not implemented, if they are only speeches. the establishment of an ad hoc mechanism, vulnerability flex, is a good example of how donors can help maintain the level of expenditure in the social sector. i would also mention the union's food facility, which allows social transfers to the most vulnerable. and of course mr jahr rightly emphasized the question of agricultural production capacity, to support the sovereignty, the autonomy - i do not say the autonomy - of these countries at the regional level. these are efforts which my colleague, mr piebalgs, is very actively supporting in the context of development policy. your report rightly emphasizes the importance of the united nations' decent work agenda, the global jobs pact. we support these initiatives and i agree with you, mrs theocharous, that we must develop a european vision for social protection support. the commission has started preparatory work leading to this common vision. the first step is the 2010 edition of the european development report, which will focus specifically on social protection in the least developed countries. we also need to find innovative solutions. i believe that social economy organisations can offer some of these innovative solutions. finally, thank you for drawing our attention to the important role of gender equality in poverty reduction. the commission and the member states are fully in favour of this. it is for this reason that on 14 june the council adopted an action plan to support gender equality at european level, annexed to the conclusions on the millennium development goals.
in writing. the vote on the report on poverty reduction and job creation in developing countries coincided with the tenth anniversary of the launch of the millennium development goals. despite the progress made, it is clear that accelerated mobilisation is needed to meet these challenges by 2015. for the first time in history, a billion people are starving. this year alone, 64 million people were added to those already suffering from extreme poverty. this reality forces us to focus on job creation in developing countries, as this is the most effective way to overcome poverty and social exclusion. in this respect, more substantial support is needed to support the educational process and to stop the exodus of skilled workers. the recent food price crisis has highlighted the drama of food insecurity in poor countries. agriculture therefore needs more attention, as it is the sole means of livelihood for most people in developing countries, 75% of whom are concentrated in rural areas.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i have to congratulate the rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, for his excellent work on this important report. every winter reminds us that europe is dependent on the gas supply from russia, ukraine and other countries. security of energy supply has become a priority for the eu, and this is most welcome. this legislation is a positive step towards reducing europe’s vulnerability and assuring our citizens that gas will be delivered in the event of serious disruption; prices will be affordable and solidarity will prevail. but more needs to be done. we need to continue diversifying energy routes and supply sources. security of energy supply has a different meaning depending on whether you are romanian, dutch or finnish. our various geopolitical situations require a european approach and the european approach requires full completion of the energy market. it is not a scoop to state that many protectionist barriers remain within the eu. protectionism is harming the market and therefore harming consumers, keeping prices up and undermining our security of supply. what is a scoop, though, is for a politician to say that politics should back off from energy policy, and i am saying that loud and clear. every day we hear about ambiguous contracts, deals agreed behind closed doors, monopolies and political arrangements. in romania, the shaping of our energy strategy is in the hands of a few people in the security council led by the president. accountability? not for the romanians. democracy? not for the romanians. and yet the consequences of this policy end up in their hands of the citizens of romania when they receive their pricey gas bills at the end of the year. it is time to ask for more transparency, accountability and democracy in the way our member states deal with energy policy. otherwise we will not be able to improve the situation for consumers. let the free market regulate prices — it will undoubtedly do a better job than politicians. we need the commission to dismantle protectionist barriers and behaviour patterns.
i would just like to stress two things: the importance of the gas-supplying countries and the importance of the transit countries, but at the same time i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the opportunity and the way he has approached this issue. as rapporteur for turkmenistan, i consider that country to be one of the vital suppliers to the european union, given the reserves it has and the opportunities it has to open up to the european union, as it has done to other asian countries, and i am referring to china. i believe that all european projects, including nabucco, white stream, depend on the relationship with this country and in this context i believe it is absolutely useful that relations with the supplying countries be improved while maintaining the standards imposed by the european union. the commitment of these countries to a strategic partnership with the european union, not only economically but also democratically, is a relationship which, in the european union's foreign policy, must be privileged. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of romania, my country of origin, in terms of transit. i think both countries, both romania and bulgaria, can play a role in stability.
the european union cannot afford to rely on external monopoly sources of gas supply. the russian-ukrainian gas crisis of 2009 showed us how vulnerable we are in the absence of a genuine common european strategy. the consequences of this were visible in the impact on the european economy and on already vulnerable categories of consumers. this external crisis of the union has also demonstrated the degree of interdependence between its member states. i therefore believe that a common strategy for diversifying the union's gas supply routes and sources should be developed so that the union can build up its own capacity to respond to the crisis. solidarity between member states, a principle recognised in the treaty of lisbon, is essential for the establishment of a european gas supply mechanism. under this mechanism, the nabucco project is of major strategic importance. it must be supported in particular by the european union because it offers the only viable alternative to the russian energy monopoly.
the european union's energy security depends on diversifying energy sources and supply routes. i believe that the european union should invest more in energy infrastructure and energy efficiency, and as far as gas energy infrastructure is concerned (i am referring to the creation of new gas pipelines, and here i stress the importance of the nabucco project for the energy security of the european union) it would be important for the european union to invest in new gas storage facilities, in improving interconnections between member states and equipping them with reverse flows, but also in gas production facilities from renewable energy sources. i would like to stress that the treaty of lisbon has created a new framework for solidarity between member states in the event of an energy crisis and i would like to welcome the work done by the rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, because this regulation is indeed a step forward in increasing the energy security of the european union.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr vidal-quadras on his work on this important report. we all know how important energy supplies are to the european union. the commission, commissioner oettinger, must continue to be actively involved in solving the problems that define the development of projects to diversify gas supply sources and to find both the most advantageous political solutions and the most advantageous financial resources. the key to ensuring europe's security of energy supply is improved energy infrastructure, interconnections and reverse flow capability, storage facilities, and most importantly, monitoring and management based on solidarity between member states. it would also be important to continue the debate on the future energy community.
madam president, since 2006 when the first interruption of gas supply from russia took place, energy security has become a top item agenda on the eu’s activity. the issue is not only economic, but highly political too, because it has a strong impact on the foreign policy of the eu and consequently on its international standing. in spite of the fact that this is widely recognised, in practice the eu is incapable of stopping its increasing dependence on energy supplies from actors with strong political agendas, who do not hesitate to exploit the eu’s increasing vulnerability. this is due to the resistance of some new important members. however, to conclude, it would be wrong to say that there is no current energy security system – there is, it is just that it is individual and not collective, with each eu country wanting to protect itself through preferential relations with individual suppliers for whose favours they are sometimes ready to compete fiercely.
in writing. the adoption of this report significantly improves the legislative framework for eu energy security policy. the diversification of energy sources is a priority in view of the energy crisis facing europe. i consider it essential to support credible alternative projects in the field of gas supply in the caspian sea region. as the nabucco pipeline will only be fully operational in 2018, the agri project is one more than necessary. it will connect the european market to gas resources in the caspian region through the azerbaijan-georgia-romania energy corridor. the political leaders of the four participating states signed the baku declaration last week. it is expected that the first gas deliveries from azerbaijan will take place in only three years, especially as romania has already started a feasibility study for the constanța terminal. in addition, the cost of implementation is twice as low as the nabucco pipeline. in view of the energy security guarantees provided by this agreement, i hope that the eu will give it the attention it deserves.
in writing. today we are discussing the security of gas supply. we're talking, winter is coming. in january 2009, the natural gas crisis between russia and ukraine demonstrated that europe was increasingly dependent on imports. this has also increased supply and transit risks. that is why europe still needs investment in infrastructure. how long will it take to execute these infrastructures? a few years, for sure. can we afford this long when every winter means a new gas crisis? how many more concessions will we have to make to ukraine and russia by then? i think we should identify and prepare for an alternative solution both as a source and as a network that combines the internal and external dimensions. when i say alternative, i mean azerbaijan, georgia, the black sea, romania, bulgaria, what the experts call the "white stream". in addition, all measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market should be accompanied by dynamic energy diplomacy.
in writing. security of supply will depend in the future on the evolution of the fuel mix, the development of production in the union and in third countries supplying it, investment in storage facilities and diversification of supply routes and sources within and outside the union. i am pleased that the proposal for a regulation has been amended by the european parliament to include an article on the nabucco gas pipeline project. this confirms that the european union institutions will continue to attach particular importance to the nabucco gas pipeline project in terms of its political and financial aspects. in concrete terms, this regulation guarantees the european household gas supply during the crisis, in order to avoid situations such as that of january 2009, when several member states were completely deprived of gas supplies. the european commission will have to coordinate these possible emergencies and ensure that each member state is protected.
madam president, i should today like to repeat once again something i have always said: relations between the eu and china are extremely important for both sides and for the whole world. this is even truer today, with china continuing its rapid growth and the eu still struggling with the crisis. the eu needs china and china needs the eu. until now, no real strategic agreement has been reached by the eu with beijing. my hope is that the forthcoming summit will finally be the right opportunity for us to speak with a single voice and to establish a strategic approach to our relations with china. commissioner, with the agenda now so close and so important, the following issues are essential within the strategic partnership for this autumn and next spring. first, in the g-20, europe and china need to build up a strong and effective partnership. second, there is cancun, with the lessons drawn from the eu failure on climate change in copenhagen. third, there is the issue of international aid and development, – not only for africa – with a view to working together to make the millennium development goals a reality, rather than just a holy promise.
we all know that the european union is not alone in recognising the opportunities that a smart and green economy offers for increased competitiveness and prosperity. china is one of the countries that has set similar priorities and is investing heavily in emerging industries, green technologies, information and communication technology and smart grids. in addition to close cooperation in these sectors of the economy, i believe that another priority area to be examined is trade. one of the driving forces behind growth, employment and investment in both the eu and china. we need to take action in bilateral cooperation to ensure that barriers to trade and investment flows are reduced and that trade is promoted based on well-defined rules. we should also strengthen the economic and political relations we have established with china, one of our main strategic partners.
madam president, it is now a fact of life that china, already the second economic and exporting power in the world, is moving towards the status of a superpower, forcing the us to pay it increasing attention. consequently, europe will soon have to compete with china for the favours of the us, while its power of attraction is fading away. under the circumstances, the eu’s own relations with china are given even more weight, not only commercially and economically, but politically, and perhaps even militarily too. however, in order for that to happen, we need to overcome the apparent division of labour between the institutions of the eu, often entrusted to play the ‘bad cop’ role in relations with china, and the individual member countries competing for the role of ‘good cop’ in their relations with this rising superpower.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank the european commission for the statement which will be annexed to the text of the agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of pakistan on the proposal for a council decision on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, which is now being put to the vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report to ensure that the change in olaf's staffing scheme is covered by financial resources and that this adjustment is entered in the 2010 budget.
in writing. − we voted for this report for the benefits it brings to smes, the development of digital societies, to counter market fragmentation and to standardise rules.
in writing. − the realisation of a real online single market for europe is one of the great challenges of the moment. especially in the context of the current economic crisis, it is all the more important that europe should work to remove barriers to e-commerce. the eu now has a market of 500 million consumers, but this is not reflected in the volume of online transactions. and this is not because the european consumer is not a fan of e-commerce, but because once the decision has been made to make a purchase online, the consumer is faced with all sorts of problems and eventually finds out that the transaction cannot be made. the figures presented in the e-commerce report are relevant in this respect. there are too many differences between member states at the moment when it comes to electronic commerce and this can only cause consumer discontent. as the report also notes that this trade, together with innovative services and green industries, holds the greatest potential in terms of growth and employment for the future and therefore represents a new frontier of the single market, the measures proposed by the commission, complemented by those of the parliament, must be implemented without delay.
in writing. − the still fairly high share of fraud by electronic means maintains a high degree of distrust of commerce via the internet. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to set up a european early warning system, including a database, to eliminate illegal commercial practices, to counter fraudulent activities and to increase consumer safety in electronic transactions, including the protection of personal data. i believe that special attention should be paid to distance contracts to protect consumers' rights in the face of the increase in the purchase of goods and services such as tourism or transport on the internet.
in writing. - i voted for this report. as shadow rapporteur for the itre opinion, i support the development of e-commerce, which is an integral part of european e-business. in the future, the completion of the eu's single ict market will facilitate the overcoming of the problems currently faced by online commerce. europe must become a major global player in this sector. the urgent and united resolution of some of the current difficulties is essential to this. i am referring to the different vat rates, the consumer protection law and, in particular, the elimination of discrimination against e-commerce consumers in some ms, practiced by some traders and service providers. europe must support its citizens who want to actively participate in the e-world through easy access to educational programmes and dedicated european funds for the purchase of hardware, software and access to the internet.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it proposes solutions to the difficulties caused by recent air accidents, both in the technical area and especially in providing insurance for the families of the victims. it also clarifies the role of the easa and national authorities in the proper and impartial investigation of the causes of accidents.
in writing. - periodically, we are horrified by news of a new aviation disaster. i hope that the new regulation on the investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation will be able to meet the safety needs of passengers more precisely than directive 94/56/ec, which it replaces. i think the main focus should be on controls, cooperation and information sharing for prevention purposes. the results of accident investigations should also be centralised and analysed in order to improve air transport safety and to manage critical situations more effectively. in this respect, i believe that european passengers should be able to designate a contact person in the event of an accident, as is the case in the usa. last but not least, i believe that there is a need for greater coordination and oversight of emergency services for the intervention and assistance of victims and their families.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i think that the report, in its final form, is a very good compromise. the rights and assistance of victims and their families will be guaranteed by requiring each member state to draw up a civil aviation accident emergency plan at national level and to ensure that all airlines registered in its territory have a civil aviation accident victim assistance plan. the new legislation will ensure that air accident investigations are conducted without pressure from regulators, certification authorities, flight operators or other authorities that may have conflicts of interest. statements obtained by the investigating authority, voice recordings or images taken inside the cockpit or air traffic control units will be used exclusively for investigations, except in cases where there is an interest in disclosure to the judicial authority. this will allow the people involved to speak openly with the investigators. i appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur on this matter and i hope that in the future the european union will conclude agreements on civil aviation safety with non-member countries as well.
in writing. − the european union needs a sustainable gas market, diversification of networks, a transparent and solid internal market, and secure monitoring of supplies from third countries.
in writing. − the eu's energy security policy should enable it to anticipate, not just react to, gas crises such as the one in 2009. the eu's growing dependence on external energy resources, mostly from politically unstable and unpredictable states, could harm the economic interests of the member states. the eu's energy vulnerability requires a comprehensive energy policy that combines internal and external dimensions. all measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market should be accompanied by dynamic diplomacy aimed at strengthening cooperation with the main producing, transit and consuming countries. ensuring the continuity of gas supply to the community states, especially in crisis situations, must be a common strategic objective. national plans with preventive and emergency measures are urgently needed and their coordination at community level would ensure their effectiveness. in the medium term, the existence of a large competitive internal market with well-developed connections and infrastructure is considered to be the most effective means of protection against supply disruptions.
in writing. − the issue of eu gas supply is a strategic priority, especially in the face of a massive increase in import dependence. the gas crisis between russia and ukraine and the still high degree of unpredictability in the behaviour of these eastern partners are forcing the eu to act to diversify its gas supply and transport sources. unfortunately, despite much debate, key projects such as nabucco are still in their infancy, perpetuating europe's dependence and thus vulnerability in this respect. i hope that this regulation, which is more effective because of its direct applicability than directive 2004/67/ec, which it replaces, will give impetus to the nabucco project and the other alternative solutions and also ensure a prompt, coordinated and effective response capacity in the event of supply disruptions.
in writing. − in a world dominated lately by oil price fluctuations and natural gas supply disruptions, the european union is increasingly concerned about energy insecurity. we are becoming increasingly aware of our vulnerability to these shocks and therefore concrete steps must be taken to adopt an efficient energy policy. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that energy security must be seen as an essential component of the overall security of the european union and that ensuring the continuity of gas supply is a strategic objective of the european union. prevention and emergency measures should be developed within the framework of national plans, while mentioning the need for their coordination at community level. they also support the proposal for a regulation on gas supply and repealing directive 2004/67/ec. full and prompt implementation of such a regulation, together with internal market legislation, will significantly reduce the eu's vulnerability globally.
in writing. − gas emits the least co2 of all fossil fuels, making it a key player in europe's transition to a low-carbon energy system. currently, a quarter of europe's primary energy consumption is gas, with almost 60% of the volume of gas consumed being imported. while the eu's 2020 targets for renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reductions could help stabilise gas demand growth, the decline in domestic production could nevertheless lead to a situation where the eu's dependence on gas imports stays at the same level or even increases. the gas crisis between russia and ukraine in january 2009, which led to a 30% reduction in gas imports into the eu for a period of two weeks, clearly demonstrated that, in the current situation of increasing import dependence and supply and transit risks, the review of the existing gas security directive and the completion of the creation of a fully liberalised internal energy market are needed, and that there is a strong need to adopt measures to strengthen the security of gas supply in the eu.
in writing. - i voted for this report because turkey has become the seventh largest trading partner of the european union and the eu is turkey's most important trading partner. turkey is a bridge between the mediterranean, the middle east, asia, the black sea and the caucasus and has had a customs association agreement since 1963.
in writing. − according to figures, the european union is by far turkey's most important trading partner, but in recent years trade volumes have declined in favour of some developing countries. in view of this volume, together with the long-standing ties between turkey and the european union, their trade and economic relations should be given due attention. in this context, the necessary actions should be taken to further develop these relations. the customs union between turkey and the european union, which was established 14 years ago and is still incomplete, must become more functional. in this regard, outstanding issues require immediate attention and turkey and the eu should further align their trade policies, in particular in the context of free trade agreements and regional trade. these actions could lead to a win-win situation, from which both economies will benefit. it is all the more important that the union pay increased attention to turkey as its role has increased in recent years, particularly as it makes more use of its unique geopolitical position, acting as a bridge between the mediterranean, the middle east, asia, the black sea and the caucasus.
in writing. - i voted for this report in view of the high volume of trade and the long-standing links between turkey and the european union: turkey has become a key trading partner of the eu, ranking seventh in the eu's top import markets, fifth in the ranking of export markets and an investment base for the european business environment, with two thirds of global foreign direct investment (fdi) coming from the eu, with increasing integration into the eu's supply and production chain, often in high value-added segments. in 2009, turkey exported eur 33,6 billion worth of products to the eu and imported eur 40,4 billion worth of products from the union. i welcome the fact that smes represent 99% of turkish enterprises and provide 70% of employment opportunities in turkey. turkey should take the initiative to swiftly implement the intergovernmental agreement on the nabucco pipeline, define a common external energy strategy and open negotiations on the energy chapter, which would improve energy cooperation. i believe that the eu's trade and economic relations with turkey should be given due attention.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on economic and trade relations with turkey, as turkey is both an acceding country and a strategic partner of the european union. the customs union with turkey is one of the closest and most advanced trade relations the eu has with a third country. 88% of the total foreign direct investment in turkey comes from the eu. given its geostrategic position, turkey is one of the countries with an important role to play in diversifying the eu's energy sources and supply routes. in this context, i stress the importance of the nabucco project and call on turkey to implement the intergovernmental agreement on the nabucco pipeline. i also encouraged turkey to invest in the huge potential of its renewable energy sources. the black sea region is of particular geostrategic importance for the eu's energy security and diversification of energy supply, given its proximity to the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia, and following the accession of romania and bulgaria, the eu has become a major player in the region. in this context, i believe that the eu should develop a black sea strategy, in which turkey will also have a very important role.
in writing. − i supported this report and voted with all conviction in favour of it. we must act to stop the loss of biodiversity caused by human action. we all regret that neither the gothenburg agenda nor natura 2000 have achieved their objectives. i believe that farmers have an important role to play in achieving biodiversity goals. i also believe that additional financial resources will have to be made available for biodiversity conservation programmes.
in writing. − 2010 is the world year of biodiversity. biodiversity is the natural capital of the world and is essential for the existence of human life on earth and for the well-being of societies, both directly and indirectly through the ecosystem services it provides. i stress the importance of biodiversity conservation in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, not only because of its potential for job creation but also because of its contribution to the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources. i am concerned about the failure to achieve the global target of reducing the rate of biodiversity loss by 2010, as set out at the 2002 world summit on sustainable development, and to achieve the 2015 target of reducing poverty and hunger and improving human health and well-being, as set out in the millennium development goals. i believe that the most important reason for european citizens' inaction in tackling biodiversity loss is their lack of knowledge, as shown by a recent eurobarometer survey: only 38% of europeans are familiar with the term 'biodiversity', while 28% know the word but not its meaning, and 17% believe that biodiversity loss is already affecting them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr ferreira's report, which is an important step in the management of natural disasters, because it brings together the prevention of disasters, the causes and factors that increase their vulnerability, and the creation of a common union-wide financial fund. we know that prevention is better than cure, and that's why i believe that reducing disaster risk will help save lives. that is why i have tabled an amendment, which has been supported, calling for the establishment of financing arrangements to support disaster prevention, risk assessment and reduction before a disaster occurs and to take account of microfinance and macroinsurance for low-income groups.
in writing. - this report is closely linked to the biodiversity report and i obviously voted in favour of it. disasters have cross-border dimensions, so we need a european network in which national, regional and local authorities can cooperate. i voted for the idea that the solidarity fund should be revised. we also voted for a common methodology for mapping risks and hazards.
in writing. − as the figures show that the number of natural disasters has skyrocketed in recent years and their economic and social cost is enormous, it is crucial that member states invest more in research and development to prevent and reduce similar episodes in the future. in the same spirit, it is necessary for member states to establish concrete coordination and cooperation mechanisms. it is therefore important to strengthen the early warning systems of the member states, to establish and strengthen the existing links between the various early warning systems, and to study and develop adaptation measures, both at rural and urban level, in relation to the intensification of extreme weather events. the scale and frequency of disasters are often facilitated by policies that create an inadequate relationship between man and the environment. prevention of such disasters must be integrated into relevant sectoral policies to promote balanced land use and economic development in harmony with nature. there is a need to create a financial framework for disaster prevention at union level to complement existing instruments, including within community policies.
in writing. − i believe that the need for the presence of representatives of the agricultural sector in the disaster management mechanism for a reality-based assessment and remediation of this sector is necessary for a more effective coordination of existing resources, leading to the strengthening of the european union's immediate response capacity policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the floods that affected almost all of europe during the spring and summer of this year - and the floods that affect some member states every year - have shown how important disaster prevention is. i also voted in favour of the report because it places a central role in the relationship between natural disasters and agriculture, proposing substantive solutions to some of the problems we face.
in writing. − we must bear in mind that disasters tend to affect the most needy, who are unable to devote resources to the protection of themselves and their families or property. i voted in favour of this report because it is appropriate and necessary to create at eu level a financial framework for the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, which would strengthen and articulate existing instruments, including in the fields of cohesion policy, regional policy and rural development policy, among others. eu funding should prioritise a range of prevention measures that will need to be implemented by member states in order to generally address risk-enhancing situations, protect built-up areas, control the security of major infrastructures and develop/revise regulations on safety in construction and land use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters because i consider eu action in this area to be vital. investments in disaster prevention measures are necessary because the costs of preventive measures are generally much lower than those of recovery measures. given the transnational dimension of disasters, such as the 2002 floods, the 2007 wildfires, and this summer's floods, we need an effective toolkit for disaster prevention, response and mitigation. the concrete measures envisaged by the commission are to identify risk areas, renaturalize watercourses, rehabilitate and protect watersheds, wetlands and associated ecosystems, clear and re-plan forests, reforestation, and interventions to protect and defend the coastline, prevent and mitigate the effects of earthquakes and an inventory of good practices to facilitate the exchange of information between stakeholders. an important step in improving the effectiveness of existing policy instruments for disaster prevention is to increase the flexibility of procedures and speed up access to the eu solidarity fund so that the requested amounts reach those affected as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe that more emphasis should be placed on social protection systems to prevent poverty and address social hardship, thereby contributing to stabilising the economy and maintaining and promoting employment capacity. priority should be given to actions that contribute to meeting basic social needs and promoting the protection of vulnerable children and women, severely affected by the crisis, as well as at-risk young people, low-paid, unskilled and migrant workers, rural workers and persons with disabilities.
in writing. - i supported and voted for this report. the eu treaty includes obligations to combat poverty. the developing world faces the greatest social challenges. i support the idea that governments should prioritize the protection of vulnerable children and women, rural workers and people with disabilities. i also support the need for developing country budgets and eu development aid to allocate at least 20% of spending to health and basic education.
in writing. - for the first time in history, a billion people are starving. this year alone, 64 million people were added to those already suffering from extreme poverty. this reality forces us to focus on job creation in developing countries, as this is the most effective way to overcome poverty and social exclusion. in this respect, more substantial support is needed to support the educational process and to stop the exodus of skilled workers. the recent food price crisis has highlighted the drama of food insecurity in poor countries. agriculture therefore needs more attention, as it is the sole means of livelihood for most people in developing countries, 75% of whom are concentrated in rural areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in order to reduce poverty, it is necessary not only to promote employment but also to create quality jobs. small and micro enterprises, especially in the agricultural sector, need adequate financing such as microcredit to maintain existing jobs and create new ones. in this regard, i support the call on the commission and the member states to increase public financial support to small and micro enterprises and farmers in developing countries, in line with the requirements of the global jobs pact of the international labour organisation.
in writing. − strong and sustainable economic growth in a stable environment contributes to prosperity and quality jobs and is the surest and most sustainable way out of poverty. hunger, malnutrition and the exclusion of millions of people from access to food and basic public services are the consequences of the faulty economic, agricultural and trade policies promoted and implemented in these countries. development strategies must pay particular attention to the most vulnerable and marginalised people, in particular women, children, the elderly and people with disabilities. in this connection, i believe that developing countries should: - put more emphasis on combating the exploitation of child labour, with a view to creating quality and sustainable jobs for adults in return and to allowing children to receive an appropriate education; - give priority to actions contributing to the fulfilment of basic social needs and promoting the protection of vulnerable children and women, severely affected by the crisis, as well as at-risk young people, low-paid, unskilled and migrant workers, rural workers and persons with disabilities.
the pharmaceutical industry is a key sector for the european union both because of its direct link to the health of each of us and because of its economic potential. i believe that the directive and the regulation in question will help to improve the system of pharmacovigilance. there will be an exchange of information between national and european authorities, who will be in constant contact with patient organisations and representatives of the pharmaceutical industry. data on adverse drug reactions should be made available to health authorities and professionals and to patients. patients should be made aware of all the features of the medicine they are taking and this information should be clearly stated in the package leaflet. new medicines, which have been authorised when all the side effects are not yet known and contain new active substances, must be easily identifiable by patients. there must be regular monitoring and a periodic report, at least every five years, on the safety of these medicines. dramatic side effects can be discovered even 30 years after a drug has been approved for sale. and last but not least, i want to emphasize the interdependence between investment in pharmaceutical research and innovative medical technologies and patient safety and the development of the pharmaceutical industry.
in writing. – this report is an important step on the way to a more coordinated and effective monitoring system for pharmaceutical products. increasing the number of patients who are monitored will provide more information about new drugs, allowing the authorities and manufacturers to identify potential problems more quickly. there are many aspects of this report which will bring benefits, but i especially welcome the call for further research into the environmental impacts of pharmaceutical products, and the effects they can have on ground water, for example. whenever we discuss health issues, i think it is always important to stress the value of preventative medicine and the importance of the principle that prevention is better than cure. simple, health-conscious decisions about lifestyle, including exercise and diet, can prevent the suffering and costs associated with serious – but preventable – diseases. we should always keep this in mind when discussing any aspect of health policy.
i would like to join the rapporteur and my colleagues in pointing out the difficult situation facing the european union, a situation which neither the council nor the commission seem to be aware of. the four years that have passed since this multiannual financial framework, the economic crisis and the entry into force of the new treaty are all challenges that the european union is facing, which is why it is obvious to everyone, it is clear as daylight that we need more budgetary flexibility. i therefore believe that the purely technical revision of the multiannual financial framework, as proposed by the council, is not a solution, it merely postpones the reform that the european union needs and moves important discussions today to a year or two later. we must also bear in mind that this multiannual financial framework, this revision of the framework, must prepare the discussions for the new multiannual financial framework which will come into force in 2014.
member of the commission. − i can say that there are mechanisms, there is monitoring. the esf is present in every member state and the various desks communicate with each other. therefore, there is the capacity to monitor simultaneously what is going on in various member states, and if any irregularity occurs there is the capacity to transmit information accordingly, and if necessary apply corrections.
member of the commission. − if we look at energy prices and analyse the general increase in recent times, we have several causes for this. the commission has always taken a number of measures under european competition law, most recently in the case of the german companies e.on and rwe in the electricity and gas sectors, in the case of gdf in the gas sector and in the case of the swedish companies in the interconnector sector. we believe that this will have a moderating effect on energy prices in europe. i was able to stress to the energy ministers earlier this month that the rules for the internal energy market are consciously aimed at consumer protection and that we want to do everything possible to clearly define public service obligations for quality and prices transparent, non-discriminatory and verifiable. the actual invoicing to the consumer is usually governed by national rules, so that the member states are responsible for the content of the invoices, their structure and their structure and can also design them. the issue of billing is discussed in the energy citizens' forum with the aim of exchanging best practices, benchmarking, best practice. we have a working group there that is tasked with investigating the best possible billing issues. the report is also publicly available. the third energy package also contains new provisions on the frequency of meter reading and also on the subject of intelligent consumption measurement. we want to promote both. there is a public consultation entitled 'towards a european charter of energy consumers' rights' which was drawn up three years ago. consumer rights are regulated and legally binding in several directives and in numerous national implementing measures. we will continue to work on this with the energy ministers.
i would like to refer to the transparency of bills concerning the energy consumed by european households and i would like to ask you whether you intend to create a common framework, some recommendations on the minimum information that must be contained in the energy bill, so that it is both easy to understand and sufficiently clear to consumers.
member of the commission. - all your questions are valid and important and indicate that we are not there yet. the liberalisation of the energy market is only meaningful if there is competition, transparency and the possibility of directing the supply to the place of consumption. that is why we are going along with our single market packages. we have a wealth of infringement procedures to show member states where they have not yet fulfilled their obligations to implement. we hope that the second package of measures for the internal market will be completed in the foreseeable future. the third package of measures for the internal market will be ready next spring. until then, all member states must indicate how and when the transposition is to be completed. when it is mentioned here that some existing lines are not being used to their full capacity despite the corresponding demand, so that someone should be excluded from transport, we ask for specific information. as regards third party access to the network, we are persistent in our common commitment, even where it becomes difficult, that every line must be freely accessible to everyone and on equal terms. this is particularly true for gas, where there is still a considerable need for back-up pipeline networks. otherwise, at the beginning of the year, we will present an interim report on the internal market - where are we going, where are we standing? - so that everyone in business, in national politics and in parliament knows that while we always talk about the internal market in sunday speeches on gas and electricity, in practice it is often more likely to be opposed than implemented from monday to saturday. transparency in accounting that is exactly what we want. we are relying on, and are working towards, the member states to implement this. it seems to me that in addition to the internal market, there is the issue of consumer education and information and then technology for the consumer in the household keyword smart metering . all three the appropriate constant monitoring in the household, the appropriate competence and competition are the three factors to achieve their consumer interests in the internal market as well.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we welcome your interest in developing an intelligent energy infrastructure keyword smart grids . we have limited practical experience with smart grids so far and the results of our studies must therefore be interpreted with caution. a study funded by the commission concluded two years ago that smart grids could reduce primary energy consumption in the eu energy market by almost 9% over ten years. based on our average electricity prices, this would result in savings of almost 7.5 billion euros per year. we also see advantages in the field of technology and safety for the market and for consumers. smart grids allow for better tracking of electricity flows through intelligent monitoring and can thus reduce grid losses and increase the security and reliability of the grid. on the other hand, consumers can also better control and manage their energy consumption. these benefits are not zero-rated. this requires massive investment from both the public and private sectors. some member states have taken the first steps towards setting up the networks. sweden, for example, italy, with almost 100% of their customers already equipped with smart metering systems. we have pilot projects in france, germany, the netherlands, spain and the united kingdom. the commission is promoting the widespread adoption of smart metering and the development of smart metering networks beyond the scope of the new directive. we set up a smart grids working group in november last year. we have to look at the industry, the regulators and the consumer organizations to see if it is appropriate, we have to look at incentives and requirements, we have to look at where there is a need for regulation and we have to look at whether further standards of technology make sense. we shall be presenting the results of the working party to parliament next year. the communication on regional initiatives mentioned by the honourable member has several objectives and is not only focused on smart grids. the purpose of the forthcoming commission communication on this subject is to consult the regulatory authorities of the member states and other stakeholders on the commission's views on electricity and natural gas with regional interconnection. this means that we want to balance objectives, tasks, regions covered and the management of regional initiatives accordingly. the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which will be operational in the spring of next year, should also be highlighted. all in all, we want to achieve europe's energy objectives not only on a europe-wide basis but also in regional cooperation. we are expressly supporting this with our measures.
i would like to ask you, because smart energy networks will also contribute a lot to increasing energy efficiency, they will help to identify energy-deficit areas and areas where there is a lack or insufficient energy infrastructure and that is why i would like to ask you what investment prospects you are considering, i am referring here to the mid-term review but also to the future financial perspective.
my question concerns the allocation of a percentage, say 15%, of research funding to competition between smes alone, because smes often do not have the possibility of securing co-financing or of competing at the level of co-financing with large enterprises. and i would also like to ask you if you are considering creating a common set of rules for different sources of research funding so that universities can more easily access these funds.
sustainable economic and social development is achieved through the use of various territorial advantages. this idea is a key point of the green paper on territorial cohesion. the principle of cohesion has been reinforced by the structural funds regulations for the period 2007-2013 and is one of the key objectives of the european union introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the provisions of article 174 should be translated into specific development strategies and concrete measures aimed at overcoming the handicaps and exploiting the potential of mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas. this could be achieved through a european policy framework and could add value by using various local advantages. research and development policies would lead to better exploitation of the vast natural potential of these regions with direct impact, for example, in the field of sustainable energy and tourism. we could turn geographical specificities into benefits. one important aspect is the attention we must pay to demographic trends. we need to encourage specific demographic policies for the inhabitants of these areas, offering them different facilities according to the specific characteristics of the area. and the deprived mountain areas of my country, with their continually declining population, are waiting for measures to improve their economic situation so that the inhabitants are encouraged to stay in these settlements and contribute to their development. and very importantly, i believe that gdp should continue to be the main criterion for determining eligibility for regional policy assistance. the introduction of other indicators would complicate and disrupt the very process of development of these areas and cohesion policy as a whole in the long term. however, these indicators may be used by the member states when redistributing funds between regions within the limits of the packages allocated to them in favour of the areas in question.
commissioner, in its cohesion policy, the european union must pay particular attention to regions with natural and demographic handicaps, such as the northern regions of the continent, which are less populated, or island, cross-border and mountain regions. these areas, more than any other regions of the union, face particular challenges generated by difficult access, climate change, regional integration, demographic change. in addition, they share a number of features which require the development and implementation of specific programmes in the field of regional development and the adaptation of the indicators for allocating funds, which must take account of the particularities of each region. this must take into account the low population density and access to vocational training programmes, which subsequently allow access to the labour market and influence the unemployment rate in these areas. the population in these areas should not be living on the basis of assistance programmes from national public systems. these areas must have adequate resources and capacity for sustainable development, for access to services of general interest.
the need for a good link between cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy has already been mentioned by several colleagues. i would like to stress this and the importance of the european funds for rural development in the economic and social development of mountain regions. we are debating the future of the common agricultural policy. we must bear in mind that this reform must be carried out in a way that unlocks the potential of mountain areas to develop and even contribute to economic growth. the diversity of local products, tourism activities, for example, could be a source of wealth for many regions. but to do this, the regions in question need access to public services, infrastructure and transport. the common agricultural policy, through its second pillar, must be able to continue to ensure access to such services and at the same time the conditions for... (the president withdrew the floor. )
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank you on behalf of my colleague, mrs connie hedegaard, who has already made her position very clear in public on this matter, for the question which comes at the right time. connie hedegaard is unable to be here today because she is in new york in the context of the ongoing climate negotiations. the icao assembly will be held, as you know, from 28 september to 8 october, and climate protection is, in principle, at the top of the agenda. the icao council, which met last week to prepare a resolution on air transport and climate protection, was unfortunately unsuccessful. the eu's unilateral commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 20% below 1990 levels also includes emissions from aviation. these have not been subject to any other international reduction targets, and that is about to change. air emissions have almost doubled since 1990 and are expected to continue to rise. for 2020, we expect them to be 70% higher than in 2005. by 2050, it is estimated that the number of jobs will have increased by between 400% and 500% compared to 2005. the european union's action to tackle the climate impact of aviation has been a focus since the european parliament and the council decided in 2008 to integrate aviation emissions into the eu emissions trading system from 2012. this concerns all flights to and from the eu. airline operators around the world have already begun preparations for this. they all have to contribute to climate protection in the european emissions trading system, unless the home countries have comparable systems to reduce emissions from international aviation. the eu's position for the forthcoming icao negotiations was confirmed by the council at the beginning of september, with the adoption by icao of a 10% greenhouse gas reduction target for international aviation by 2020 compared to 2005 and the establishment of a common framework to support market-based actions to reduce aviation emissions by icao. the eu is prepared to exclude flights from third countries from the ets on a bilateral basis if that country implements appropriate climate protection measures for transport. you know that we disagree with the united states and other icao members on the issue of air traffic emissions. the us demand for a mutual agreement, i.e. for mutual recognition of climate change measures, is directly opposed to the implementation of european measures. but we will not allow our partners to undermine eu legislation, especially as we believe that this measure, which will account for one third of global aviation emissions, is a key contribution to the fight against climate change. we cannot accept that those who want to do more to combat climate change need the permission of those who want to do less. there is no veto over the climate protection legislation of other states. but it is also impossible for serious climate action to create a competitive disadvantage. if we were to apply eu rules only to european airlines, it would be discriminatory on grounds of nationality, it would undermine the fight against climate change and it would be economically pointless. mutual agreement is the magic word for continued inaction in the fight against aviation emissions and climate change. the european union must and will remain firm in the forthcoming negotiations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. on the contrary, we need a common approach and a global reduction target to reduce aviation emissions in a sustainable and long-term way.
the world economy is increasingly dependent on air travel. statistics compiled by the european environment agency showed that in 2005, 20% of total carbon dioxide emissions were generated by air transport. research into new engines and fuels will obviously reduce these emissions. according to a recent study, today the standard fuel efficiency of an a380 jet engine is 3 litres of fuel per 100 kilometres per passenger, which means that it is perfectly comparable to that of a modern diesel car. in order to open up the market for air transport services, the union shall negotiate framework agreements with third countries on certain aspects of air services. an example of this is the agreement recently signed between the european union and canada. i believe that these agreements should explicitly contain provisions on the reduction of aviation's impact on the environment. article 25a (1) of directive 101/2008 provides that, where a third country adopts measures to reduce the climate change impact of flights departing from that country and landing in the community, the commission will examine the options available to ensure optimal interaction between the community scheme and the measures available in that country. i ask the commission to provide examples of such successful interactions. article 25a (2) of directive 101/2008 also states that member states and the community shall continue to work towards agreement on comprehensive measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. with a view to such an agreement, the commission should consider whether amendments to the existing directive are necessary. commissioner, is the commission considering such changes?
the inclusion of aviation in the eu its is an important step forward in the fight against climate change, because this change is occurring at a global level and the legislation in force needs to act at this level. application of the directive in its current form from 2012 onwards will facilitate this. requiring third countries to icao to participate in the scheme on a voluntary basis only slows down progress in this area. meeting this demand will not only reduce the competitiveness of european airlines but also hinder the fight against climate change. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security. i ask the commission and the council to involve the european parliament in the negotiations with third countries to obtain the mandatory inclusion of companies from these countries in the emissions trading scheme. this does not diminish the progress made in creating the single european sky, which will reduce air routes and further facilitate fuel savings.
the council dealt mainly with the union's external relations. but let us not forget that the economic situation is the problem facing the european citizens today. it is good that an agreement has been reached on the european semester, but unless the european commission has an implementation mechanism including sanctions, this agreement is useless. sanctions must exist, but they must not allow citizens to be punished twice: once by inefficient governance and a second time by reducing european union support. the proposed measures must help to prevent deficiencies, not allowing a situation to be reached which already produces negative effects. on the roma issue, all european citizens are obliged to respect the law. all member states are obliged to comply with european law. anyone who does not, whether a citizen or a member state, must bear the consequences. in this case, however, i believe that punishing citizens - or member states - does not solve the fundamental problem. the roma situation can only be solved by a european policy. i am convinced that all member states, whether of origin or transit, can produce a list of different measures to support roma integration. i believe that a european policy means a single list of measures and programmes to be applied identically and simultaneously in all the member states. and i also believe that implementing this idea doesn't require more responsibility or more money - just political will.
in writing. issues relating to the situation of roma in one of the member states of the european union occupied a large part of the time allotted to the european council debates. without trying to minimize the importance of these issues, i appreciate that this approach - based on crises or business situations - is superficial and ineffective. it is true that positions on this issue have been balanced and solution-oriented, but in order to overcome the problems of roma communities living in the european union, long-term, visionary measures are needed, not just summits at european level. i am glad that the european institutions have understood that in this debate they must play an active role as guardians of the treaties and of community law, which is the same for all citizens of the european union, regardless of their member state of origin or ethnicity. the right to free movement, as provided for in directive 38/2004, cannot be called into question for any european citizen, and the mere mention of such a possibility constitutes a dangerous precedent.
in writing. 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. today, 84 million european citizens, representing 16% of the eu population, are at risk of poverty and, in the context of the economic and financial crisis, the main concern of european citizens is related to job losses. during this period, the european council should analyse the union's main challenges and identify solutions and priority areas for investment by the union in order to maintain its international competitiveness and ensure a minimum employment rate of 70%. i believe that areas such as energy security and efficiency, investment, innovation and climate change should be on the agenda of the european council. i welcome the fact that at the european council in october the eu will reaffirm its firm commitment to combating climate change and agree on the eu position at the cancun conference. the free movement of persons is one of the union's fundamental principles, enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. we therefore call on the european council, the member states and the commission to respect and implement community law. reaffirming the importance of the eastern partnership for promoting eu values, i call for the development of an eu black sea strategy.
in writing. – the european council’s sometimes heated debate on the roma crisis in france was a step in the right direction. it stressed the need for a pan-european approach in dealing with the roma problem. it also proved that the pervasive clichés of the left will only serve to leave unsolved or to even aggravate this issue. three main ideas emerged form this robust debate: 1) the roma problem is not owned by one member state or another. it is a european phenomenon that requires coordinated european policies; 2) the right to free movement should not amount to the limitation of the right to security; 3) minority rights should not preclude legal responsibilities. the council debate has proved wrong the assumption that romania and bulgaria are not pursuing integration programmes for the roma. finally, the council position was a clear rejection of the suggestions that linked the roma question to the schengen accession of romania and bulgaria. i am convinced that france and romania will maintain a high level of cooperation and set a model in the field. the roma question was systematically distorted and used for political reasons. this sad precedent should be replaced by appropriate and energetic policies.
i welcome the move from fragmented european economic surveillance, driven by decisions taken at national level, to unitary macroprudential supervision, which will allow the union to speak with one voice. the union will be able to plan its macroeconomic interventions carefully, and it will have at its disposal more suitable tools to prevent a possible future financial crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we have to consider that these banks are one of the main sources of systemic risk. i also regret that member states have retained the right to oppose decisions by the european supervisory authorities that would have too much impact on national budgets. i think the time for small steps is over. the future of europe is not built on half measures, but on full political commitment.
in writing. i congratulate the european commission, the council and the european parliament for adopting regulations on the supervision of financial institutions and markets. european citizens needed to know that in the future, those categories of financial speculation will be prevented where speculators believe it is normal for the positive results to go to them and the losses to be covered by taxpaying citizens. i ask the commission and the council to also focus on the next problem with the proper functioning of the european economy: how is it possible that most industries are low profitable or on the verge of loss, and the banking industry is again high profitable after the crisis.
in writing. – the decision on the financial supervision package constitutes a truly crucial response, proof that the eu has understood at least some of the lessons of the crisis. the creation of the supervisory authorities is a major step towards european integration and the furthering of the single market. now the implementation of this new architecture begins. it is true that the new supervisory authorities will act in a coordinated manner, together with the national supervisory bodies, and not by replacing them. but it is equally true that the fragmented response of the member states during the financial crisis prevented the eu from showing more efficiency, more coordination and more leadership. so it is quite obvious to me that advisory powers and non-binding recommendations are not enough. binding rules, harmonised application and coordinated supervision are needed for a more efficient single market. these are the requirements that have to be fulfilled by the new esas to constitute the institutional foundation of the new european financial supervision architecture. the same requirements are necessary to best serve the interests of european taxpayers.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i find it useful to propose simplifying the vat refund procedure by introducing an electronic procedure. i believe my vote is in the interest of the taxpayers, whose right to deduct vat will be protected.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance plays an important role in european public health, with an estimated 200,000 people dying each year from adverse reactions to medicines. clinical trials are not sufficient to detect all the side effects of medicines that are about to be placed on the market. the cases of thaliomide or vioxx are still too recent to forget. the proposal to change european provisions on the activation of emergency procedures in the event of a report of dangerous situations with medicinal products lawfully placed on the market is welcome, as swift and concerted action is needed. the commission' s decision to replace the current pharmacovigilance working party with the pharmacovigilance risk assessment advisory committee (prac) is correct. most experts said that the existing working group system operates in a somewhat ad-hoc manner, focusing only on medicines authorised through the centralised procedure and lacking a status to ensure that the results obtained are monitored by the committee for medicinal products for human use, which oversees the whole system. the proposal to appoint two additional representatives to the ccerf representing patients and healthcare professionals is welcomed.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance is the process and science of monitoring the safety of medicines, including the collection and management of data on the safety of medicines, the evaluation of these data to detect the presence of a safety concern, the actions to be taken to correct it, including reporting on the issue, and the evaluation of the procedure used and the results obtained. under current eu legislation, medicines can be authorised in two ways: (a) through a centralised procedure whereby a pharmaceutical company submits an application to the emea (european medicines agency), as provided for in eu regulation no 726/2004, or (b) through a mutual recognition system whereby a country carries out an evaluation of the new medicine and establishes coordination with other member states through mutual recognition. i support the report because consumers and healthcare professionals should have full access to the central european eudravigilance database to prevent the recurrence of adverse drug reactions, which could be prevented by facilitating access to validated information. this is an effective way of addressing disparities between member states in the provision of information on adverse reactions to medicinal products. public access to eudravigilance is necessary to restore citizens' confidence in the ability of health authorities to protect public health.
in writing. − the adoption of this package is of the utmost importance for increasing patient safety, which will be much better informed about medicines on the market for human use by creating databases containing up-to-date and detailed information and translations of the package leaflets in all community languages. the measures introduced by this package will substantially improve the pharmacovigilance situation in europe, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance is the system used to monitor the safety of medicines after they have been authorised for public use. under current eu legislation, medicines can be authorised in two ways: (a) through a centralised procedure whereby a pharmaceutical company submits an application to the emea (european medicines agency) or (b) through a mutual recognition system whereby a country carries out an evaluation of the new medicine and establishes coordination with other member states through mutual recognition. the rules governing the procedure for the decentralised system are laid down in directive 2001/83/ec. we voted for this report because european patients will be better protected and informed about the use of medicines and their side effects. the new regulations provide for the creation of national and european drug websites that can provide patients with more information. they will be able to inform national authorities about adverse drug reactions.
in writing. - i voted for this report because biocides to combat harmful organisms and pathogens are going to be safer, including from an ecological point of view. new biodegradable products will have a simpler authorisation for placing on the european market. we voted to ban the most toxic chemicals, especially those that are carcinogenic, have harmful effects on fertility or affect genes and hormones.
in writing. − the european union is perhaps the most mobile space in terms of population, with a high population density, especially in urban agglomerations. under these conditions, the transmission of microbes and diseases becomes more likely, making biocidal substances a necessary part of our lives in order to maintain high standards of health and hygiene. biocidal substances need to be effective and therefore their handling can also become dangerous. the new regulation on biocidal substances must, however, apply equally to private companies that produce them and without them finding themselves in a situation where they lack the raw materials for the production of biocidal substances. that would be unfortunate, given that those substances are necessary. the report presented to parliament's plenary clearly showed that the commission's proposal for a regulation requires substantial improvements if the objectives it has set out to achieve are to be achieved. the new regulation must take account of three fundamental areas: environmental protection, consumer protection and safe and practical implementation by producers.
in writing. - i voted for this report because 'biocides' to combat harmful organisms and pathogens are to be safer, including from an ecological point of view. new biodegradable products will have a simpler authorisation for placing on the european market. we voted to ban the most toxic chemicals, especially those that are carcinogenic, have harmful effects on fertility or affect genes and hormones.
in writing. − the future regulation provides for a simplified product authorisation procedure under certain conditions in order to avoid unnecessary costs and excessive fees. it also revises the existing 1998 directive and sets the concentration of authorisation at the european chemicals agency. i support the phased introduction of centralised authorisation: from 2013 for low-risk products and from 2017 for all types of biocides). the exclusion criteria for dangerous active substances (carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic for reproduction, persistent, bioaccumulative) may be considered when a substitution plan for them already exists. therefore, when a biocidal product containing an active substance for substitution is authorised, the time limit will be 3 years and there will have to be environmentally and human health friendly alternatives. the new regulation must take account of three fundamental areas: environmental protection, consumer protection and safe and practical implementation by producers.
in writing. − the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) will be responsible for addressing several practical issues, such as: non-life insurance, life insurance as an investment and occupational pensions. given that the insurance market in the so-called 'new member states' is being developed by foreign european investors, the role of the supervisory committee for such cross-border networks will be crucial in order to provide security for all citizens of the member states. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority will also be able to intervene at the level of national supervisory authorities when they encounter difficulties in the consistent implementation of community technical rules. i believe that this initiative, together with the competence of esma to resolve cases of disagreement between national supervisory authorities where they are legally obliged to cooperate or reach an agreement, represents a step forward in managing the integration of financial services in europe. in short, it is a balanced system that deserves all our support.
in writing. − i voted for this report because three new european supervisory authorities (esas) will be created and will replace the current supervisory committees. their powers will be far more important than the advisory nature of the current system and it is possible that they will have additional powers in the future, thanks to the review clause. the european systemic risk board (esrb) will also be set up to monitor and warn of the accumulation of risks in the european economy.
in writing. − i agree with the commission's proposal to create three new decentralised european insurance and occupational pensions agencies and believe that their establishment is more than welcome in this european context of the economic and financial crisis that hit europe in 2008.
in writing. − the european parliament has regularly called for equal opportunities for all actors at union level. significant failures of the union in the supervision of integrated financial markets were also observed. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and establishing the european insurance and pensions authority. i believe that there is a need for an authority to protect the stability of the financial system, the solvency and liquidity of financial institutions, the transparency of markets, financial products and the protection of depositors and investors. i also believe that without access to relevant and necessary information on transactions and economic operators, this authority cannot function.
in writing. − i have called for the european systemic risk board (esrb) to have increased powers to ensure rapid and clear communication. the esrb will develop a common set of indicators to allow for uniform risk ratings of different cross-border financial institutions and to identify the types of risk they may have. the esrb will also develop a traffic light system to reflect the different degrees of risk. in order to improve the esrb's ability to estimate risk accumulation and to have the widest possible expertise, the scientific advisory board will include scientists. in order to have adequate visibility as well as the necessary credibility, the president of the european central bank will chair the esrb for the first five years.
in writing. − in voting on the report, we called for this european systemic risk board (esrb) to have increased powers to ensure rapid and clear communication. the esrb will develop a common set of indicators to allow for uniform risk ratings of different cross-border financial institutions and to identify the types of risk they may have.
in writing. - i voted for this report because consumer protection is the main objective. in response to the complexity of today's financial services, i have argued for the centrality of consumer protection in the work of the esas, who will have the power to investigate certain types of financial institutions, financial products such as toxic ones or financial activities such as so-called 'selling without prior validation', to assess the risks they may pose to financial markets and to issue warnings if necessary. in certain specific cases provided for in financial legislation, esas may prohibit or limit certain dangerous financial products or activities, or even request the commission to submit legislative proposals to permanently prohibit such activities or products.
in writing. − in response to the complexity of current financial services, i voted for the centrality of consumer protection in the work of the esas, who will have the power to investigate certain types of financial institutions, financial products such as 'toxic' or financial activities such as so-called 'non-pre-validated short selling', to assess the risks they may pose to financial markets and to issue warnings if necessary. in certain specific cases provided for in financial legislation, esas may prohibit or limit certain dangerous financial products or activities, or even request the commission to submit legislative proposals to permanently prohibit such activities or products.
in writing. − the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has become a pressing necessity in the wake of the economic and financial crisis. it has highlighted the shortcomings of market surveillance tools and the vulnerability of european citizens, whether we call them depositors, investors or shareholders. they need to be better protected, and one way to do this is to supervise insurance and occupational pension institutions, with particular attention to be paid to cross-border actors. i support the report by mr peter skinner on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, especially as the european parliament warned long before the crisis about the superficiality of the control of increasingly integrated financial markets. i believe that the text proposed by the european parliament is more in line with the need to prevent and better manage possible future crises, in particular through measures to increase transparency in financial markets.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that a european dimension for financial supervision must be created. but we cannot be naive in our expectations: a new financial architecture will not make it possible to avoid economic and financial crises altogether. the european union will instead have a legal framework for more prompt intervention. the european central bank is an institution that has proved its usefulness in times of economic crisis by acting promptly and effectively. i therefore welcome the fact that the newly established authority, the european systemic risk board, is under the auspices of the ecb. however, i regret the decision not to grant the esrb the prerogative to impose sanctions on member states or financial institutions.
in writing. − the establishment of the european securities and markets authority is part of the community strategy to strengthen the role of the european market surveillance executive, in order to avoid the emergence of situations leading to systemic risks such as the one that has shaken financial markets and then the economies of almost all countries since september 2008. the new authority is not, however, that it will receive centralized supervisory tasks, because here we can include all the other authorities that together form the european system of financial supervisors, but that, for the first time, a european authority is entrusted with direct supervision of market participants, which implies including authorisation, investigation and sanctioning activity. this was in the light of the fact that the previous supervision was limited to the regulation and formulation of proposals which were subsequently transmitted to the competent authorities of the member states. i sincerely express both my appreciation and my curiosity about this challenge and i look forward to seeing how the provisions of the directives that will be amended as a result of the creation of this agency (i.e. the credit rating agency directive where the actors are not only very important but also very internationalised) will be put into practice.
in writing. − i would like to express my appreciation for the efforts made within the juri committee and for the work of the rapporteur which led to the adoption of this report. although it takes the form of a non-legislative resolution, the message from parliament to the commission is that artists must be protected, especially national artists, who are the most vulnerable to the danger of disappearing as a result of internet piracy. below is a list of romanian artists who wished this report to pass: the project will be implemented by the european commission, the european parliament and the council, and will be supported by the european commission's directorate-general for research, innovation and technology (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european commission's directorate-general for research and innovation (dg e&t), the european parliament and the council, and the european commission, as well as by the european commission. i am glad that i was able to make my modest contribution to the success of a balanced report, both through my positions within the juri and within the epp group.
in writing. − it is true that piracy via the internet has reached alarming levels, affecting intellectual property rights. i voted against this motion for a resolution because it does not strike a balance between the interests of all the parties involved and there is a risk that consumer rights will be infringed. there is a risk of censorship of a space that has earned its huge role in the lives of citizens precisely through freedom of expression. so i think we need a more balanced approach to this problem, not just a one-sided approach. in this respect, i believe that more attention should be paid to the possibility for european consumers to buy legally online, instead of illegally downloading.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe that mrs gallo's report does not guarantee the principle of neutrality and the protection of personal data. it also does not distinguish between commercial and private file transfers. the commission must take into account, when creating a legal framework for sanctions for infringement of intellectual property rights, the gravity and socio-economic impact of the infringement in question. in this respect, i consider it unacceptable that serious crimes with a possible major impact on the health and integrity of the individual should be included in the same category of criminal sanctions as crimes with a limited economic impact such as piracy of online media products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gallo report because intellectual property must be defended as firmly as material property. intellectual property is the engine of development, innovation and economic growth in any country, and therefore it must be given a special place on the agenda of the authorities. this is especially true in the european union, which has a particular potential to generate innovation. without effective protection of intellectual property, there is no doubt that researchers will choose to carry out their research in other countries.
in writing. - i voted against the gallo report because the completion of the legal framework on intellectual property rights (ipr) requires the use of legislative instruments rather than soft law instruments. innovation and creativity are encouraged by respecting ipr. the implementation of the digital agenda requires both the protection of consumer rights and the respect of copyright and related rights. european legislation needs to adapt rapidly to technological progress and the development of the information society. i consider that, in order to ensure the harmonisation of the legal framework at community level on copyright protection in the information society, it is necessary to review directive 2001/29/ec. this review is necessary because it has been found that there are cases of different implementation of the provisions of articles 5, 6 and 8 of directive 2001/29/ec in the member states, which has led to different interpretations and rulings by the courts of the member states. the commission and the member states must respond swiftly to the needs of the development of the internal market by creating a simple and accessible licensing framework at eu level. in the itre opinion, i called for the promotion of digital television facilities, such as subtitling, which enable licensees of a work to distribute it in several languages, thus ensuring its availability throughout the eu.
in writing. − mountain and sparsely populated regions face specific problems and therefore need specific support through regional programmes. gdp must remain the measure of eligibility for aid and structural funds if the least developed countries are to be further helped and boosted. we need economic growth that reflects an increase in the quality of life; therefore, a strategy for mountain, island and sparsely populated areas will add value to efforts to overcome the problems facing these regions. the resolution calls on the member states and the commission to ensure that these regions continue to benefit from specific provisions under the new multiannual financial programme, and i therefore supported it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it contains useful suggestions to help regions with geographical or demographic handicaps to cope with the challenges they face. these regions are performing below the eu average, with low gdp and high unemployment. cohesion policy is the most effective model for the development of regions in difficulty, directly supporting their socio-economic progress. although mountain areas and islands share some common problems such as difficult accessibility or dependence on a small number of economic activities, these territories do not face the same development constraints. i therefore believe that eu support should be tailored to the specificities of each region. such specific strategies would facilitate real convergence with the rest of the union and improve the living conditions of a significant number of european citizens, 10% of whom live in mountain areas and 3% in islands. it is also important that regions with natural handicaps make the best use of the eu financial support through the structural funds and the cohesion fund. some member states, including romania, need to significantly improve their systems for accessing and implementing european funds.
in writing. − one in ten european citizens lives in mountain areas, some of which, especially in the new member states, are disadvantaged areas where poverty and lack of infrastructure severely affect people's living conditions. these regions must remain a priority for european cohesion policy, whose concrete instruments must be adapted to the specific nature and gravity of the problems facing mountain areas. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the eu must act in solidarity and effectively to ensure that local people have access to health and education services in the first place, and to exploit the tourist and economic potential of europe's mountains to create jobs without compromising the ecological balance.
for the third year in a row, the european parliament adopted a resolution on human rights violations in the democratic republic of congo. it's a sign of major concern in this regard, but, we have to admit, also of inefficiency. we've been condemning rape as a weapon of war since 2008, and here's the un estimating that the average reported rape in the first quarter of this year was 14 a day. in late july and early august, the grim record was set of over 500 gang rapes in just five days. the fact that the un troops in the world's most expensive peacekeeping force only learned about these barbarians after two weeks, even though they have a military base only 30 kilometers away, is telling about the failure of the un mission to stop the violent conflict with strong regional implications. this escalation of atrocities ironically preceded the report of the united nations high commissioner for human rights. since then, however, millions of congolese have been victims of brutal violations of basic rights, and impunity for the perpetrators has continued to be the unshakable rule. i believe that a full investigation is needed to establish responsibility for the mass killings, including by the neighbouring countries involved in the conflict, especially rwanda. there was a genocide in the great lakes region in 1994, and some of the perpetrators are now facing the international criminal tribunal for rwanda. i believe that the establishment of the rule of law is one of the essential premises of stopping conflicts and massacres. without justice, there can be no peace. this is also demonstrated by the experiences of the former yugoslavia, sierra leone and cambodia. that's why i think the un report should be the starting point for the creation of an international criminal tribunal for the people's republic of congo.
margot walström, the united nations special representative on violence against women and children in armed conflict, called the democratic republic of congo the "rape capital of the world". the truth is, however, that if we look at the figures that are made available to us by various organizations, we see nothing but barbarism, horror, unacceptable suffering. 14 women raped per day in the first quarter, several hundred women and children subjected to this torture between july 30 and august 2, 200,000 victims of sexual violence from 1996 to the present. behind all these figures, as i said, is an intolerable suffering, especially as we are 10 years after the adoption of security council resolution 1325. i think we should consider sanctions against the leaders of the democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda.
i too find it regrettable that a tax has been introduced on entry into the united states of america. it is a measure that contradicts the united states' commitment to facilitate transatlantic mobility. but i do not think it is appropriate for the european union to respond with a reciprocal gesture towards american citizens. we don't make up for injustice with injustice. that is why i believe that the solution must be found by intensifying bilateral dialogue, and in this respect the european commission has a duty to make greater efforts to improve relations with the united states of america. unfortunately, this unfair tax is in addition to another discriminatory measure unilaterally imposed by the united states on eu member states, which affects transatlantic cooperation and trust. citizens of four countries of the union still need a visa to travel to the united states: romania, bulgaria, poland and cyprus. citizens of our countries cannot unfortunately travel freely to the united states of america. it is all the more regrettable that the us legislation in force since july 2009 has discouraged the integration of some of these countries into the visa waiver programme, as the refusal rate of applications remains the main obstacle to the abolition of the visa requirement. given that this rejection ratio is strictly dependent on the decision of the us representatives, i believe that additional efforts are needed from the us side to increase transparency in the visa granting process. i therefore join the vice-president in renewing his call on the commission to insist on ensuring non-discriminatory treatment for all citizens of the european union, including those from states for which a visa is still required to enter the united states. it is unfair and sad, ladies and gentlemen, that the countries which have settled this visa problem have forgotten about this subject in the official discussions and acts of the european parliament with the american officials. and i think there needs to be more solidarity and not local selfishness.
transatlantic relations are a priority in european foreign policy. mobility is at the heart of the concept of european citizenship as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties. free movement within the schengen area and the right to move to third countries are the same for all european citizens and therefore also for the citizens of the new member states. in this context, we continue to express our regret vis-à-vis the unjustified exclusion of millions of european citizens from 4 member states, including romania, from the special mobility partnership between the european union and the united states. the colleagues expressed concern about the promotion of the esta system, which in effect reintroduces a quasi-visa for all european citizens. the fee is not just $14 but it's also collecting personal data from eu citizens. the us department of homeland security is currently assessing the application of this visa fee. the commission must work with the american side to find a solution to eliminate it. i would point out that the maintenance of the decision may have an unforeseen impact on other pending transatlantic security and mobility related issues, such as the future eu-us pnr agreement. if the us administration does not waive the fee, we will support the commission in the necessary steps to apply reciprocity to all us citizens travelling to the european union, in accordance with the fundamental principle of the european union's visa policy.
the conclusions of the last european council state that the transatlantic relationship is based on common values. the reality is this: american citizens can enter the union freely. the european union has accepted the pnr and swift agreements on the personal data of european citizens. some european citizens still need a visa to travel to the united states. in addition, every european citizen is fingerprinted on entry to the united states, whether or not he has a visa. european citizens have to electronically declare their intention to travel and, most recently, pay $14 upon entry into the united states. i don't see where the common values are. i think it is necessary that at the next summit in november the european union should call for the abolition of visas for all european citizens and for identical treatment on both sides of the atlantic.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for your comments and the words of support for what we hope will be a constructive conclusion to our discussions with the united states on this very complicated matter. firstly, i would like to reassure members of parliament that we are examining all possible measures vis-à-vis the united states in the framework of the eu reciprocity mechanism, including the possibility of the introduction of the eu esta (electronic system for travel authorisation) on which, as you know, a feasibility study is currently underway. of course, you will be informed of the outcomes and possible proposals for the future. as to whether this fee could be perceived as a visa fee in disguise, i have to say that according to the preliminary assessment carried out by the commission in december 2008 on the present esta, as laid down in the interim final rule, at this stage the esta cannot be considered as tantamount to the schengen visa application process as defined in the common consular instructions – which is now known as the visa code. concerning the reaction of the commission to the new esta rules in the united states, here again i would like to inform you that we will issue formal comments and final assessments, once the final rule on esta is published in the us federal register. of course, we are very much aware of the high sensitivity associated with personal data collection and personal data protection, and it is very high on the priority list of the commission. concerning future diplomatic and political action, i would like to inform you that the commission has already requested the presidency to put this issue on the next jha council in october and i am sure that the fee issue will be raised at the next eu-us jha ministerial in december. i have taken on board and fully understand the preoccupations of the honourable members coming from those countries whose citizens still have to request visas when travelling to the united states, and i would like to assure them that we will relentlessly press for the inclusion of those four remaining eu member states in the us visa waiver programme as soon as possible. this issue was raised by commissioner malmström in madrid in april this year at the latest eu-us ministerial. it was also the topic of her conversation in washington two months later, and this is of course an issue which will be raised at all political levels and we will be pressing for a quick solution to this problem. please allow me to conclude by reacting to the comments by mr brok. i really would like to underline that it would be very helpful indeed if parliament intensified its communication with its us counterparts because, as we all know, the esta fee project and visa policies are very much driven by the us congress, and your support and your assistance in this matter would be very valuable indeed.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that our discussions have made it even clearer that the european union must continue to work with the american authorities to improve transatlantic mobility, and in this connection i am pleased, mr president, that the united states ambassador to the european union will be present for a good part of our discussions. i think it was a sign, a sign at least that the united states is listening to the debate that we've been having. so - and the commission will remind us of this in the report on visa reciprocity - there are still four of our member states whose citizens are still required to obtain a visa when they go to the united states, and this is intolerable in view of the visa exemption enjoyed by us citizens when they go to the schengen area. the presidency will therefore do all it can to support the commission in its continuing efforts to put an end to this situation. we must also do everything we can to limit the cost of travel to the united states as much as possible, whether for tourism, business trips or missions, and here too, be assured that the presidency will continue to advocate the union's cause vis-à-vis the american authorities. as soon as the commission has submitted its report on visa reciprocity later this autumn and its final assessment on esta, as soon as the final rules have been published by the us authorities, the council will decide on the measures to be taken accordingly.
in writing. the european parliament resolution of 22 october 2009 called on the united states to treat all citizens of the union equally, in accordance with the principle of full reciprocity. however, four countries are still excluded from the us visa waiver program: romania, bulgaria, poland and cyprus. furthermore, the united states introduced a fee for the issuance of travel authorisation to eu citizens as of 8 september 2010. i believe it is the duty of the european commission to give high priority in its relations with the united states to the issue of visa reciprocity and at the same time to seek equal treatment for all citizens of the union.
i would like to take this opportunity to refer to the romania-ukraine-republic of moldova joint operational programme 2007-2013. its funding is provided by the eu through the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. three projects submitted by the chisinau municipality in the field of public lighting, the use of renewable energy resources and ecoremediation have passed the first selection stage only after one year, which is a problem of excessive bureaucracy. even if progress has been made, further action is needed. i believe that the procedures for accessing european funds should be simplified, the scope of the crossborder cooperation programme should be extended and the time limits for examining projects should be reduced. i therefore believe that the future allocation of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument in the field of cross-border cooperation must be based on the principles of efficiency and coherence.
crossborder cooperation is one of the most important means of building a united, enlarged europe without dividing lines. the joint operational programme, the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, romania - ukraine - moldova cross-border cooperation for 2007-2013, which has over eur 126 million, also plays an important role in this regard. as a member country of the union, romania contributes to the implementation of this programme in cooperation with two eastern partnership countries. this will finance concrete measures to achieve the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy. the implementation of the programme, which is still very slow, is facilitated by the entry into force this year of the agreement on small border traffic between romania and the republic of moldova. the same facilities could be achieved through a similar agreement between romania and ukraine. the progress made in managing the eastern border is also likely to prepare romania for its imminent entry into the schengen area. last but not least, the danube strategy currently being drawn up by the union can give a new impetus to crossborder cooperation with the republic of moldova and ukraine. this is how regional and foreign policy can complement each other very well, always leading to positive results.
the european parliament has consistently campaigned for an increase in the financial envelope for the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. however, there are obstacles to implementation due to the complicated procedures and the lack of flexibility of the rules for the application of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, which prevent calls for proposals from being launched. i ask the commission to closely assist those countries which have not been able to absorb the budget allocated through this instrument and to repeat the commission's initiative this month. it is also imperative that the budget allocated to this instrument and not yet used be transferred to another border cooperation programme. of course, double funding between crossborder cooperation programmes and other neighbourhood and partnership instrument programmes will have to be avoided. in conclusion, i would like to thank the commissioner for his efforts in the union's relations with the republic of moldova.
article 11 of the universal declaration of human rights provides, as you know, for the right to a fair trial. it is obvious that laogai, re-education through labor, is a clear violation of this right. the laogai camps, as my colleagues have said before, do more than that: they subject prisoners to torture and degrading treatment as well as to work, obviously unpaid, in mines, on farms, in factories, which sometimes extends to the whole length of the day. in laoag camps, according to human rights organizations, detainees are also subjected to beatings, sexual assault, and lack of medical care and acceptable food. the importation into our union of such products created in the laogai system should obviously be prohibited. i'm sure of it. the commission may monitor this prohibition. mr. gallagher suggested it very clearly in his speech. on the other hand, i too believe, as other colleagues have said, that every opportunity should be taken by the union representatives in high-level meetings with chinese officials to explicitly demand the banning of this degrading system.
in writing. the death penalty violates the fundamental human right to life and is without justification. various studies have shown that the death penalty has no effect on violent crime trends. i would therefore like to stress that europe and the world as a whole must act in a united manner for the universal abolition of the death penalty in states where it is still a common practice and also to act against its reintroduction. at the end of 2009, this measure is maintained by the governments of 43 states, including one in europe. it is a reality that should give us pause, and it is in our power to convince both governments and citizens worldwide to abandon this act of torture that is unacceptable to states that respect human rights. this objective is a priority and can only be achieved through close cooperation between states, awareness-raising and education. welcoming the european parliament's resolution on the world day against the death penalty, stressing that the complete abolition of the death penalty remains one of the european union's main human rights objectives.
in writing. – as we mark the world day and the european day against the death penalty, i recall that this parliament stands united in its opposition to the death penalty. this is because capital punishment erodes basic human dignity and contradicts international human rights law. studies show that there is no evidence that the death penalty has a significant deterrent effect on crime, while it does disproportionately affect underprivileged citizens. despite these facts, there are over 20 000 people around the globe on death row; dozens of them are european nationals. from this parliament, we must continue to oppose executions in all circumstances and support an unconditional international moratorium on capital punishment. we also need to encourage states to provide accurate and official statistics on their use of the death penalty. under our treaties, parliament must give its consent to international agreements with third countries. we should keep in mind the stance of these countries on capital punishment when we do so.
in writing. while the fight against the death penalty is already one of the european union's human rights priorities, the creation of the new european external action service is a good opportunity to reaffirm the importance we attach to this issue at european level. in order to be able to take effective action, it is important to differentiate between the progress made in certain countries on the one hand and the critical situation in other places on the other. so while it is worrying that the us continues to use the death penalty, we must acknowledge that the number of executions in the us has fallen by 60% in the last decade. on the other hand, the chinese government is to be strongly condemned, having executed more people in 2009 than all other countries combined. it is extremely regrettable that, after for the first time in modern history, no one was executed in europe in 2009, the belarusian authorities have sentenced to death and are likely to execute two people during the course of this year. in conclusion, i believe, as does president buzek, that the death penalty cannot be considered an act of justice under any circumstances.
in writing. the death penalty is banned in all 27 member states of the council of europe, but is still practised in many countries around the world. but it is sad that in many cases the greatest punishment is not for the commission of crimes under the constitution, but for the consistent and courageous representation of political, religious views, violation of cultural customs. europe has realized that it cannot make laws that allow for the violent extermination of human life. it is time to stand up for this wise insight and spread it to the world in countries where they do not currently think this way. cultural diversity, different worldviews enrich human civilization, and no law can justify the practice of capital punishment.
in writing. with the non-legislative resolution, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority, the european parliament sent a very clear signal to both the commission and the oil companies to take the necessary measures to eliminate the existing shortcomings in safety and liability standards in the field of oil extraction. the deep-sea drilling licences must be strictly controlled, but this is not enough to prevent black tides, real ecological disasters that the european union cannot accept. given the increasing difficulty in finding oil and the increase in potentially hazardous deepwater drilling, a general reflection on future action is required. efforts to protect the environment must be pursued in a sustained manner and the european union must play its role as protector of its citizens and of nature, in harmony with which we all must live, by regulating oil extraction activities. oil spills, which have occurred in the past, would have catastrophic consequences for the environment, while also harming fisheries or tourism. for this reason, european environmental liability legislation must also include damage to marine waters.
in writing. i appreciate the point made by my colleague jo leinen. it is imperative that europe takes a stand against one of the greatest catastrophes of the century. the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico and the spill of a significant amount of oil into the atlantic ocean have and will have a major impact on global climate. the north atlantic current is experiencing major temperature changes that will cause the european minimum to drop this winter. the council and the commission must act clearly and transparently by adopting measures to guarantee the safety and security of oil extraction operations and a high level of environmental protection and the prevention of ecological disasters in the european union! the european union must maintain its position on climate change and at the same time protect and facilitate the proper exploitation of oil fields in order to guarantee the need for fossil fuel. parliament, the commission and the council must work together to devise a foolproof action plan.
in writing. it is imperative that we take all possible measures to ensure that a disaster like the one caused by the deep water horizon will not be repeated in european waters. the review of environmental legislation and of health and safety legislation relating to deep drilling is a welcome and necessary process. the council and the commission should seek to develop a strategy to ensure harmonised levels of protection throughout the european union. otherwise, differences in operating and drilling standards in the member states will only allow companies to provide high levels of protection when - and where - they are forced to do so. the human, social and environmental costs of the deep water horizon disaster are impossible to quantify in financial terms. but oil extraction must be backed by insurance to cover worst-case scenarios. only then will taxpayers be spared the cost of cleanup operations and can the companies and local communities affected by the oil spills receive the compensation to which they are entitled.
i would like to begin by stressing the urgent need for the european union to adopt a clear and united position on biodiversity at cop10 in nagoya. the lack of such a firm and coherent position would lead to another shameful outcome, like the one at cites in march 2010. i would therefore like the envi recommendations to be accepted without reservation, as they are perhaps the best guide to formulating an official european union position which our representatives can support without hesitation in nagoya this month. beyond these considerations, we must not forget that what is at stake is not only the credibility of the european union as a lucid and responsible partner in international decision-making, but above all the fate of the planet.
ensuring environmental sustainability is one of the millennium development goals, with direct and dramatic implications for people's lives. pollution and the unreasonable exploitation of agricultural land, forests, and water resources are causing climate change that is threatening the earth's natural resources. i would like to talk about one of the most dramatic threats, which is the increasingly difficult access to water resources, with humanity facing the grim prospect that by 2050, about 45 percent of the world's population will be threatened by water scarcity. unfortunately, it was only this year that the un general assembly declared both the right to safe drinking water and the right to sanitation as basic human rights indispensable to the enjoyment of life; but this comes amidst the fact that already more than a quarter of the world's population lacks access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation. the rate of disease and death from improper drinking water remains alarmingly high, especially among children. i therefore believe that the european union must bring about a much more rapid and precise response at the nagoya conference to these problems of the third world, which exacerbate poverty and lack of prospects. i believe that the historical responsibility of developed countries for the material and ecological state of the planet should be an additional argument for policies that counter the current trend of encouraging the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources in developing countries, dependent on the export of raw materials.
if we think about the environmental, social and financial consequences of the destruction of biodiversity, we cannot underestimate the importance of the forthcoming nagoya conference. the ecological disaster in hungary, which killed four people, hit seven towns and affected the ecosystems of several rivers, threatening to affect the danube and danube delta in romania, provides a sad backdrop for today's discussion, but also a serious call for stronger action to protect the environment and biodiversity. it is time to reconsider the ban on the use of hazardous substances in mining, to put an end to these tragedies. the environment committee's resolution on biodiversity contains many important elements, but i would like to highlight a few that i consider essential. first, the main objective of the negotiations should be to adopt ambitious and concrete targets, relevant to a wide range of areas and sectors of activity, from construction and transport to forestry and agriculture.
europe can be divided into nine distinct biogeographical regions based on similarities in climate, topography, geology and vegetation. the danube region is one of the top 20 ecoregions in the world. the biodiversity in this region is extremely rich. it is home to 2,000 plant species and 5,000 animal species. since 1991, the danube delta has been a unesco world heritage site, and the danube area comprises several special protection areas and special conservation areas under natura 2000. as the danube and danube delta constitute a unique and fragile ecosystem, which harbours rare plant species threatened by pollution, we believe it is important that the european commission sometimes improves its capacity to predict and respond to floods, severe drought and accidental pollution. the european union has taken several measures to protect diversity, biodiversity. nature is not only an important part of europe's heritage, not only bringing economic benefits, but also providing many valuable services such as water purification, flood control, soil erosion prevention, crop pollination and recreational activities. land exploitation, accelerated urbanisation and transport infrastructure development have seriously damaged natural habitats and, for example, large-scale drainage schemes have reduced a significant proportion of naturally flooded areas.
in writing. in the context of this debate, i would like to highlight the important role of the teeb project, funded by several european countries, which calculates the financial value of nature and the costs of biodiversity loss. teeb allows us to recognise the scale of the challenges and prepare for future decisions in this area. i would like to mention just a few figures recently presented by teeb: the cost of deforestation is about $4.5 trillion a year; according to other, equally recent estimates, over a quarter of the world's original biodiversity has disappeared by the year 2000, and by 2050 a further loss of over 10% is expected. the examples go on and on. under these circumstances, the nagoya summit is more than timely. i also believe that this parliamentary debate is particularly appropriate to enable us at european level to coordinate our position at the forthcoming summit.
in writing. this year is a crucial moment to strengthen international efforts and commitments to halt biodiversity loss. we must seize this moment to set clear vision and targets for biodiversity and its sustainable conservation beyond 2010. we need to define a strong common position and have the european union actively involved in the future international negotiations. a long-term global vision must take into account the links between biodiversity, ecosystem services, climate change, desertification, economic prosperity, and the health and well-being of citizens. the achievement of the proposed biodiversity objectives and targets is conditional on the mobilisation of the resources necessary for the proper implementation of measures for the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. in this respect, romania supports greater involvement of the private and public sectors in finding innovative solutions and mechanisms for biodiversity financing.
in writing. the lisbon treaty reaffirms the commitment of the member states to the fundamental social rights defined in the european social charter (1961) and the community charter of the fundamental social rights of workers (1989). the lisbon treaty reaffirms that the union is acting for the sustainable development of europe. the eu economy is a highly competitive social market economy with full employment, social progress and a high level of environmental protection and improvement as its objectives. the union shall combat social exclusion and discrimination and shall promote social justice and protection, equality between women and men, solidarity between generations and the protection of the rights of the child. in august, the unemployment rate at eu-27 level was 9.6%, with 20% for young people. the economic and financial crisis has dramatically affected the social climate, with the main concern of european citizens today being their jobs and quality of life. the eu is first and foremost the 500 million european citizens, and that is why europe must be social. social europe must provide european citizens with decent jobs and livelihoods, young people with quality education and the prospect of professional integration, pensioners with decent livelihoods and quality healthcare.
i would like to start by congratulating tanja fajon on her report. part of the thessaloniki agenda, visa liberalisation with albania and bosnia and herzegovina takes into account the progress made in the dialogues over the past seven months. the evaluation was carefully carried out on a case-by-case basis for a number of criteria relating to illegal immigration, public policy and security and the european union's external relations with third countries. obviously, in this context, particular attention must also be paid to the security of travel documents issued by the third countries concerned. the visa waiver was based on country-specific roadmaps. the european vocation of the two countries and the fact that they have already exempted all eu citizens from the visa requirement should be recalled. finally, i would point out that this visa exemption should only apply to holders of biometric passports issued by each of the two countries concerned.
mr president, i think that we should support the visa-free regime for albania and bosnia and herzegovina and i welcome very much the report of tanja fajon, but with regard to albania, we must make sure that we send the message that a positive vote in the european parliament does not in any way mean a reward for the albanian government. it is instead only a relief for the citizens of albania, who for over a year have had to bear the consequences of a never-ending political crisis. it is anyway clear that the positive outcome in parliament would only be half of the way for albania, since unless they make concrete progress some members of the council will end up with reservations. until now the albanian government seems not to have made any progress or shown any effort to solve the political crisis, despite the resolution adopted by the european parliament in june. the only field in which there has been visible progress was corruption, but unfortunately in the opposite direction to what we expected, with cases of high-ranking members of the albanian government being daily brought to public attention in recent months, at least. this is not the right way to act towards the eu and albania should listen to the warning before it is too late.
in writing. i support the eu visa liberalisation initiative for bosnia and herzegovina and albania. i would like to take this opportunity to address the issue of visa liberalisation for the republic of moldova, a country which has made considerable progress in the eastern partnership. as in the case of albania and bosnia and herzegovina, the republic of moldova has made remarkable efforts in the last year to obtain visa liberalisation. the government has already started implementing the measures that the eu has requested from the western balkan countries in the roadmaps, promoting a policy of 'early implementation'. the first measures in this regard were the approval of the law on the aliens regime and the initiation of the development of the integrated border management concept. it also decided to issue biometric passports exclusively and ratified the rome statute of the international criminal court. the eu has also been involved in a number of other international initiatives, including the establishment of a european union-wide visa system. the first step the union should take in this regard is to draw up, as soon as possible, a roadmap for a visa-free regime. in the context of the upcoming elections, this would constitute a strong message of support for the pro-european forces in this state.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the rapporteur's position that the reunification of the european continent will only be completed when all europeans are able to travel freely to the union. personally, i have a heightened sensitivity when we discuss the western balkans and in particular albania's problems and the progress that allows it to eliminate visas for citizens travelling within the eu. part of my family has roots in albania. i welcomed the same measure a year ago, which was then aimed at macedonia, montenegro and serbia, and i shall vote with all my conviction for the real right of free movement of european citizens in albania and bosnia-herzegovina. we all know how hard the wars were that led to the breakup of yugoslavia and divided this region. we also know that it is the young people in these areas who are most vulnerable to being isolated from a prosperous union. our role is to encourage them. the right to free movement without visas contributes to this.
in writing. i believe that the existence of dynamic, well-defined financial markets capable of financing substantial investments is a sine qua non for the recovery of the european economy. i strongly support the commitment made within the g20 to generate more capital and develop liquidity management standards. these high liquidity quality standards are an essential component of the crisis response. i also believe that greater flexibility of the eligible assets available in the european union, by determining the reliable sources of funding and their specific characteristics, will ensure financial stability in the face of crisis situations, both in the short and long term.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have now heard all the arguments or requests and i will report them scrupulously to my colleague, mr joaquín almunia, who, through my voice, has told you that he himself considers that there is no reason today to propose a totally new legislation on fines, since the existing regulation no 1/2003, which i have already mentioned, can be very useful to us in the foreseeable future. as regards the guidelines, the commission is constantly monitoring their application and is open to any suggestions for improvement and, in this respect, what has been said by both sides would be extremely useful. mr lehne, mr gauzès, mr skinner, we are also not opposed to a certain flexibility in our practices of monitoring the application of regulations, within the limits of the guidelines of the case law, to take account of a still difficult economic situation. but at the moment, i repeat, mr almunia does not see the need to revise the 2006 guidelines. it is satisfied with the way these guidelines work. they have been flexible enough during the crisis to allow us to take account of the difficult financial situation of certain companies, as some of you have mentioned. these guidelines for the calculation of fines are binding on the commission. this means that they provide legal certainty for businesses because the commission cannot depart from them without demonstrating their soundness. if the commission deviates from the guidelines, it risks having decisions annulled by the courts. mrs in't veld, as regards the various sanctions other than fines, we must assess to what extent it would be possible, if possible, to integrate them into our current legal framework. if alternative sanctions exist in the member states, they appear to be used in only a minority of cases and fines remain the main sanction. two principles should guide this discussion. first, individual sanctions must not undermine our current system of criminal control, including the clemency programme. secondly, the fact that individual sanctions have been imposed on the directors or employees of an undertaking, which is therefore possible, does not in any way diminish the undertaking's liability in the event of infringement of the competition rules. finally, the commission considers that the current level of fines and the uniform application of eu competition law are good deterrents against possible anticompetitive behaviour in the internal market. mr. lehne, i'll give you a point. we have an administrative system to ensure that the competition rules are properly applied. there are many advantages to this system. we also have case law from the court which supports this system. mr sánchez presedo mentioned transparency, and i am not surprised, since we have other discussions with him in the context of supervision. there are improvements that can be made. we have flexibility in the guidelines i have just mentioned and i would point out that this year the best practice practice has been introduced. finally, on more sophisticated programmes, or more sophisticated instruments, mrs in't veld and mrs stihler have touched on this issue. we can bring this issue up through compliance programs. they're welcome to come. i know, and we believe, that companies take these compliance programmes seriously, and that can help with prevention, which, mr gauzès, is always cheaper than redress or punishment. finally, mr skinner and mr kelly referred to the firms which sometimes suffer from these punishments and the social problems which this can cause. we are following developments in the member states with interest and attention, particularly in small and mediumsized enterprises. that is why we would like to propose, as stated in our white paper, that we will act on the actions for damages to check their effectiveness, to assess their consequences. that is why the commission will soon launch a public consultation on this point.
in writing. the european commission is increasingly imposing fines on cartels and companies that abuse their market position. the fines imposed by it in 2009 exceeded eur 2 billion. the promptness of the european executive's reaction is welcome. at the same time, we must ask whether the current system of sanctions is sufficiently comprehensive. the commission plays the dual role of prosecutor and judge. in addition, the negative effects of the fines imposed include the loss of jobs of the employees of the companies subject to the fines. thus, people who have not broken the law become collateral victims. i therefore believe that it is necessary to develop a more refined set of measures in the area of antitrust infringements aimed both at greater transparency of proceedings through the appointment of an independent judge and at introducing the possibility of individual punishment of directors responsible for the unlawful conduct of companies.
today, october 6th, is an important date in the history of the hungarian people. for more than a century and a half before that, the hungarian revolutionaries, in the spirit of the new, fundamental values then alive throughout europe, freedom, equality, brotherhood, took up the fight against the two most powerful armies of europe. thirteen generals of the failed war of independence were executed on this day in arad, in the territory of present-day romania. but the hungarian people's desire for freedom was unlimited by the oppressive system of the 20th century, communism, as the events of 1956 demonstrated. the thirteen martyrs of the 48th arad, of whom only four were hungarian, proving the supremacy of universal values over nations. for us hungarians, it symbolizes this, the eternal desire for freedom, the unity of the hungarian nation and reconciliation and solidarity between nations.
unfortunately, in romania, there is a brutal censorship that no longer exists in any of the european union member states: it is an aberrant institution called the national audiovisual council. this is a hellish machine, stalinist in its design, which, by the absurd, if the great writers cervantes, goethe, byron, balzac, cesare pavese and adam mickiewicz were alive today, would censor them too. this gang is effectively terrorizing independent television stations. i would compare this cna to an elephant graveyard, from which emerge some "zombies" politically guided by a dying dictatorship that imposes unbearable financial sanctions on those shows in which the opposition parties speak some truths. help us to get rid of the "gauleiterii" from the cna and give romania back the greatest victory of the revolutionary year 1989: freedom of the press!
despite the anti-crisis measures taken by european governments, recent demonstrations and strikes show that the situation is still far from improving. unfortunately, it is precisely these anti-crisis measures, whereby governments aim to fill budget gaps and pay back expensive loans taken from banks, that are generating a new crisis, translated into a direct reduction in incomes and a decline in the quality of life of the citizens of european countries. perhaps it is time for the governments of the european union's member states to change their attitude, putting the interests of their increasingly empty-pocketed citizens ahead of those of the banks, which still manage to make substantial profits by magic. after all, if someone has to lose in this game, it doesn't always have to be the common man.
the worst thing that can happen during an economic crisis is that it is overlaid with a political crisis. this is happening in romania, the country experiencing the most severe economic downturn in emerging europe. the austerity measures, of unprecedented severity, are being applied by the government, regardless of the hardships of millions of romanians, who are practically condemned to suffer from cold, hunger and the inability to obtain medicines. the social protests we've seen in recent times reflect the mood of the citizens, desperate to face the hardships of winter with drastically diminished incomes. in parallel, there are dramatic violations of the right to freedom of expression, as has been said here in the house this evening. the fraudulent imposition of a pension law targeted at the poorest population groups leads me to call on the european institutions to pay due attention to the total crisis in romania and to respond against the undemocratic excesses in this country.
member of the commission. - madam president, my colleague, mr piebalgs, could not be present himself and it is on his behalf that i will make a number of comments and reflections. and to tell you the truth - again, the commission is always at the disposal of parliament - i am very pleased to have heard mrs de keyser and the other speakers on a subject which has long interested me personally. it is no coincidence, madam de keyser, that in my capacity as commissioner for the internal market and the financial services, in addition to the weekly visits i now make to each of the capitals of the union and after the first visit i had to make to the united states, since almost all our transactions are transatlantic, i wanted to make my second visit outside the union to addis ababa at the end of july to meet the leaders of the african union, because our fates are linked and i have been advocating for many years for a new policy of partnership between our two great continents. and on several subjects which, being linked to the crisis, are in any case concerned or raise your own concerns - for example cooperation between our markets, the fight against money laundering, financial regulation, the fight which i want to wage in an implacable manner against the hyper-speculation in agricultural raw materials, particularly in africa where many countries are dependent on imports for their food - i have decided, with my colleagues, following this visit, to undertake, to intensify our cooperation. i would add, in congratulating you on behalf of mr piebalgs and myself for the quality of your report - you mention the health situation in developing countries - that we are not just talking about africa. i was in haiti a few weeks ago to extend the visits of my colleagues, mrs ashton, mrs georgieva and mr piebalgs, and it is clear that even outside africa, in some of the poorest countries, there are challenges to be met in terms of prevention and public health. as mr rinaldi said, the fact that nearly 30 million people die prematurely each year in developing countries from causes that could be treated with the equivalent of the money spent in the european union or the united states on pet food alone, or about if we look for a second comparison element 2% of global military expenditure. i think that this situation is simply unacceptable. sustainable social policies, including health, should be at the heart of the state's priority functions in a context of sustainable and inclusive growth. health is not only a right for all but also a part of economic development. health systems based on per capita expenditure of less than eur 30 per year, 50 times less than the eu average, will never be able to keep health workers on the ground, ensure the availability of essential medicines and provide equitable access to care. i would like to say on behalf of mr piebalgs that we will continue to insist that the european union honour its commitments in terms of the level and quality of official development assistance to third countries which need it most. for the commission, support for health systems remains a priority commitment of our external action, a strong element of our political dialogue with third countries. to echo the concern of mrs záborksá, third countries are not all in the same situation, there is a great diversity, as you said, between countries that are among the developing countries or the least developed countries in africa, for example. we are also trying to promote this concept through the active participation of the commission in global initiatives, such as the global fund for aids, tuberculosis and malaria, and through interactions with other public and private actors active in this field. mrs de keyser, you have rightly paid tribute to the work of ngos, which i consider to be exemplary. i have seen it again in haiti a few days ago, their role is not only remarkable but also decisive in relation to the administrative or public actions of the various interventions of the union, donors or the world bank. adequate health and social policies are essential to achieve concrete results in europe and in developing countries alike. simply ensuring the quality of the resources devoted to supporting our european partners cannot be enough. we must also ensure that our internal policies, for example those relating to the migration of health workers or the trade in medicines, are coherent so that the overall impact of internal policies can also benefit or at least not harm those in the world who need them most. in my own area of competence, i would like to mention two points, mrs de keyser, which may be of interest to you. firstly, in the draft single market act which we are preparing for 27 october, i intend to promote the large social business sector, to work on a statute for the european foundation. somewhere in this there is an encouragement that we must give, here in europe, to structures, ngos, social enterprises, which could be supported in their work for the poorest countries or developing countries, particularly in the field of health. the second area which i am particularly concerned about at the moment is counterfeiting. in the plan i will present to you next autumn to combat piracy and counterfeiting, i have included several chapters which we will finance and support, on technology to detect counterfeit goods, on communication to european audiences, on training of staff at customs or at the external borders of the union. but i would also like - i have asked my colleagues to do so - to have a chapter on cooperation with countries where counterfeit products come from and where counterfeit products can cause considerable damage to health, particularly when it comes to counterfeit medicines. we'll have a chance to talk about this again. on the basis of the analysis i have just outlined, the union adopted the conclusions on the role of the union in global health. it's our benchmark in our health interventions. as i said, the resources of official development aid are not sufficient and there is one point on which the analysis of your report is most relevant. in europe we have a variety of ways of financing health systems, each with its own strengths and weaknesses. there is no single, perfect solution for the different local contexts. it is clear that a purely voluntary insurance system, based on private funding mechanisms, would also not be sufficient to provide equitable and universal access to health care, hence the essential role that public authorities must play in regulating and financing health systems to establish or ensure these principles of equity and inclusion. we count very much on parliament's contribution to this effort to strengthen the path and solidarity of the citizens of the european union and of other actors of the union - including ngos - in this field. i think that our union has much to learn, but also much to share with the rest of the world and that we have added value in this area. this must be clearly reflected in our approach to health policy in developing countries and i was pleased, for my part, to be able to reply to you and to take this opportunity to tell you my personal commitment to these issues.
in writing. health in sub-saharan africa is one of the most difficult challenges for eu humanitarian and development policy. i think the drama of the situation is best summed up by the fact that the people in this region have a life expectancy that is about half that of a european citizen. the report gives a good overview of the causes and highlights the remedies needed, including our share of responsibility. international funds for health care are set at half of those for education. without in any way underestimating education, i believe that this disproportion reflects a neglect that needs to be corrected in the future. also, the encouragement by developed countries of the exodus of doctors and nurses from african countries perpetuates the current disaster. i believe that more discernment, especially by eu countries, in recruiting specialists in such key areas would foster substantial progress in improving africa's health system.
social inclusion is a particularly important and well-integrated theme in regional policy and, as we all know, involves much more than just job creation. the resolution on the european social fund underlines its role in achieving the objectives of the union 2020 strategy, which without the instruments of regional policy has no chance of being successfully implemented at national, regional or local level. so as long as regional and social policy are interlinked policies that work together successfully, i do not think we should accept the separation of the european social fund from the structural funds in any way. such a decision would open the door to the sectoralisation of funds, thus setting an undesirable precedent in this respect. the european social fund must remain within the framework of the structural funds, all the more so since it has proved its effectiveness in all european regions, and is a key element in the fight against the economic crisis alongside the european regional development fund. to achieve social, economic and territorial cohesion, we need a strong and well-funded community regional policy. i therefore believe that the regional dimension must continue to have its rightful place both in the revised union budget and in the future budget. we must reject any attempt at renationalization. regional policy is not a charity policy, but a community policy for all regions, which brings economic growth, innovation and competitiveness, an instrument that is within the reach of all member states. if we want solutions to meet the needs and realities we will face in the future, we must maintain the same framework - and i am referring to both the basic principles and the amounts allocated.
cohesion policy has so far been a successful tool for reducing disparities between member states and for demonstrating solidarity - yes, solidarity, a fundamental value of our union. but reducing imbalances is essential not only for the european union, but for each citizen and for each region, and it requires human resources as well as adequate financial resources. the current cohesion policy requires improvements, but not dramatic changes, and above all we must reject, refuse to renationalize and under-finance it. at a time when rich and less rich member states are suffering from the effects of the economic crisis, cutting the budget allocated to cohesion policy would jeopardise all the gains made in recent years and reduce the disparities we have tried to combat so far. that is why i agree with president josé manuel durão barroso's position that the budget allocated to cohesion policy in the future must be at least equal to the current one. otherwise, we will be left with nothing but talk and we will undermine the european project itself.
the achievements of the european union's cohesion policy and the added value it can bring to the eu 2020 strategy are undeniable. the role of this policy in ensuring the competitiveness of regions and facilitating their adaptability should also be emphasised. i believe that while cohesion policy priorities should be aligned with the eu 2020 objectives, there should be enough flexibility to take account of regional specificities and to support weaker regions with greater needs so that they overcome socio-economic difficulties, natural handicaps and reduce disparities. a strong and well-funded european union regional policy, benefiting all eu regions, is a necessary condition for achieving our future objectives.
in my view, the european commission should explain in detail and clearly how the synergy between the cohesion funds and the funds for the common agricultural policy will be achieved, since their concerted operation would add value to community action and would also lead to greater efficiency in achieving our objectives. last but not least, i join those who today called for the simplification of the rules for all types of funds, both at european and member state level, and those who said that gross domestic product must remain the main criterion for determining eligibility for assistance.
i ask the european commission that the future economic, social and territorial cohesion policy of the european union allocate significant amounts to the transport sector, in particular to intermodality and also to the energy efficiency of housing. i believe that these investments will ensure, on the one hand, job creation at local and regional level and also create economic welfare and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in these sectors. last but not least, commissioner hahn, i hope that after 2013 we will have a separate funding line for the european union strategy for the danube region. i would mention that the european union strategy for the baltic region has, for 2011 alone, 20 million euros. the european union strategy for the danube region can become one of the most successful projects of the european union.
today's debate on cohesion policy beyond 2013 is timely, also taking into account the 'open days' in brussels. the fact that many participants from most european regions have come here to present their initiatives, efforts, results and dissatisfaction in various areas of regional development, strengthens my conviction that the union's cohesion policy is delivering concrete results. a particular aspect of the current programming period is the efficient use of existing funds. we will have to concentrate on measures to increase the absorption of the funds allocated, especially in those regions which are experiencing difficulties in this respect. therefore, the simplification of the implementation of cohesion policy must continue at european, national and regional level. of course, the right balance must be struck between simplification of procedures, efficiency and sound financial management in order to have an easy-to-implement policy with increased visibility.
the european union's cohesion and regional policy is of paramount importance not only for the sake of increasing economic competitiveness but also for the sake of the ideal of european unity. i think we can all agree that a truly united europe can only be built in the medium and long term if it is based on a balanced level of economic development. the eu 2020 strategy is therefore essential for its effective implementation and achievement of its objectives, so that the different regions at different levels of development are both beneficiaries of the process. it is therefore crucial for the less economically developed regions to maintain the current level of funding for cohesion policy. we must avoid europe being divided into two by the slowdown in the catch-up of the member states that joined after 2004.
in writing. we all know that the european social fund is the european union's main financial instrument to support the employment policies of the member states. we are currently facing a crisis situation at european level and member states have different capacities to deal with the situations generated by the economic and financial crisis. i appreciate that the 'european platform against poverty' aims to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion with appropriate financial support, but i believe that support from the european social fund must be based on solidarity. the future european social fund must support the regions' efforts to train their human resources so that they are able to meet their development targets with as low labour costs as possible.
in writing. cohesion policy is indispensable to the process of european integration. we need a single european regional policy that will bring sustainable growth, job creation and modernisation across the union. only viable synergies between all european policies and appropriate budgetary instruments will enable us to achieve our objectives. the regional dimension must be fully taken into account in the proposed revision of the eu budget and in the future financial framework. gdp must remain the main criterion for determining eligibility for regional policy assistance but other indicators must be accepted, following a comprehensive assessment that proves them viable the principle of subsidiarity, multi-level governance, strategic planning and simplified implementation of regional policy must be effectively correlated to achieve an optimal balance between quality, performance and financial control
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i share the rapporteur's view that the european globalisation adjustment fund should support workers made redundant as a result of changes in the structure of world trade. the fact that in 2010 the budgetary authority has already approved 8 proposals to mobilise the fund is a sign of the flexibility of the procedures, a proof that we have managed to identify new resources and allocate them to the member states quickly enough. i also welcome the fact that the commission has identified an alternative source of payment appropriations other than unused esf allocations.
in writing. − in february 2010, spain submitted an application for assistance for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in connection with redundancies in 82 garment enterprises in the galicia region. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the mobilisation of the egf to provide aid for people made redundant. trade liberalisation in the textiles and clothing sector has radically changed the structure of world trade, resulting in a general trend towards the relocation of production outside the eu to countries with lower production costs, such as china and morocco. the economic crisis also caused a large number of bankruptcies in the textile industry, leading to massive layoffs. in galicia, 32,700 redundancies were recorded between 2007 and 2009, of which 4414 were in the textile industry, with 80% of the workers made redundant being women. i believe that the procedure for awarding these funds should be simplified so that the egf is easily accessible to undertakings affected by the consequences of the economic and financial crisis and by changes in the structure of world trade. i would like to stress the important role of the egf in helping redundant workers to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of the danfoss group in denmark, as i believe that the mobilisation of the egf is absolutely necessary in this period of economic crisis. on 8 september 2009, denmark submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of the danfoss group, which made redundancies of 1 443 employees. the economic and financial crisis led to a sharp decline in demand for mechanical and electronic equipment. the evolution of the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector changed dramatically in the eu in the fourth quarter of 2008, with both denmark and germany recording declines in output of over 25%. danfoss' sales of mechanical and electronic equipment decreased in 2008 by up to 52% in europe, 48% in america and 23% in the asia-pacific region. due to competition with leading asian firms, which have considerably lower labour costs than those in the eu, the danfoss group's production has been progressively relocated from denmark to third countries, which has seriously affected the labour market. i call on the commission to develop an ambitious and green industrial policy that can ensure the eu's global competitiveness and keep jobs in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support persons made redundant by the family business linak a/s in sønderborg, denmark. denmark submitted on 8 september 2009 the request for a financial contribution of eur 1 213 508 (65 % of the total budget required) to support 139 employees made redundant at linak s/a, which coincided with another large series of redundancies at the danfoss group in sønderborg, southern denmark. i believe that member states are responsible for supporting the reintegration of every dismissed worker. the egf provides member states with the possibility to support workers affected by the global financial and economic crisis and by major changes in the pattern of world trade. in romania, between march 2008 and march 2010, 381 296 workers lost their jobs, 13 667 of them in the galați county alone. i believe that other member states which have not so far requested the mobilisation of the egf, including romania, should also examine and follow the example of those which have used the egf to support people made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. the committee's recommendation to refuse discharge to this european institution was followed by the plenary, leaving this 'police academy' with a tin of tail. the tragic-comic situation in which the european police college is not receiving discharge for financial fraud shows that there is no limit to corruption. i mean, the very institution that's supposed to protect you from criminals (indirectly, through the professional training of police officers) is being put on trial.
in writing. − 21 years after the fall of the berlin wall, europe is still divided, with citizens still needing visas to travel freely within the eu. i come from a country that has lived for almost half a century under the darkest of communism, with no right to travel freely. then it took romania 15 years to convince europe that its citizens are not inferior and should enjoy a basic human right. the eu is not and has never been a supporter of the artificial construction of separation walls but has brought all europeans together by abolishing borders. the european parliament has been a consistent promoter of the idea of lifting the visa requirement because it is aware of the psychological impact that the current situation has on those who are still forced to obtain visas to visit their families established in eu countries, to study or simply to travel. it is time that, 21 years after the unification of europe, there should be no visa requirement for any inhabitant of the continent who wishes to travel within the eu's borders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because it facilitates the implementation of previous union commitments on the free movement of persons across the european continent. in this way, citizens of the western balkan countries will also be able to be part of the process of reuniting the european continent. i believe that we cannot advance in our desire to build a european identity and citizenship without removing the barriers to free movement on the continent, between the member states of the union and its neighbours. i appreciate the openness to extend this facility to albania and bosnia-herzegovina. joining their citizens in free movement in the eu with those of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia will also allow some of the wounds of the recent past to be healed. here are some arguments in support of my vote.
in writing. − the balkans, the 'powder-box of europe', despite progress in recent years, remain a potential hotbed of inter-ethnic tension in the first place, coupled with political instability and economic and social crisis. the most recent example is bosnia-herzegovina, where, unfortunately, despite efforts, the spirit of confrontation between communities still torn by the wounds of war persists. i believe that the removal of the walls that still divide the continent will stimulate the process of reform and reconciliation in this part of europe. following the abolition of visas for serbia, montenegro and macedonia in december last year, bosnia and herzegovina and albania have made significant progress, as the report shows, so that isolation and fragmentation are no longer justified. the problem of kosovo, which is not even recognized as an independent state by many states, including the eu, remains unresolved in the region, and this is something to be concerned about in the near future, as it could set a dangerous precedent for ethnically-based secessionist movements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because i know very well – as a romanian citizen – how important freedom of movement is. it is the most important freedom that the european union is based on and the biggest right a european citizen has. broadening this principle to albania and bosnia-herzegovina is an important step on the way to european integration.
in writing. - the democratic republic of congo is the scene of a humanitarian drama that is taking place far from our eyes but that does not make it any less heartbreaking. i hope that the european parliament's initiative to issue a statement firmly condemning all the warring parties in the conflict in the democratic republic of congo and to forward it to others, including the un secretary-general, will lead to an improvement in the situation of the civilian population, the real victims of a senseless war. reports of the situation in the democratic republic of congo are all the more disturbing as acts of unusual ferocity are taking place in the vicinity of the un peacekeeping camp. the 1,244 women raped in just three months this year by representatives of all the forces involved in the conflict are not just numbers, statistics. each of them is experiencing a tragedy and the fact that this situation can happen again at any time, without any feeling of defense, is all the more shocking. the situation in the democratic republic of congo is an additional argument for any kind of gender violence to be officially recognized as a crime against humanity and a war crime.
in writing. - i have been following with concern and anxiety the developments in the democratic republic of congo, the abuses against civilians, especially women, and the use of rape as a weapon in the confrontations between the various military factions engaged in a veritable civil war. i have participated in the drafting of this european parliament resolution on the cases of breaches of human rights and justice in the democratic republic of congo, in order to find a way of obliging those responsible to respect the rights and freedoms of citizens, the dignity of persons and the international commitments to which the country is a party. the initiative of the united states, which recently adopted the law on 'conflict mines', is welcome, and it is natural that the initiators of this resolution, who ask the commission and the council to consider a similar legislative initiative, should use it as an additional instrument to influence the decisions of those responsible for such reprehensible and barbaric acts. as a result, i voted to pass this resolution.
in writing. − in recent years, there has been encouraging progress towards the abolition of the death penalty. the number of countries that have permanently abandoned the death penalty has increased to 95 and its regular application has been restricted to two regions of the world, asia and north africa. un resolutions on the implementation of a global moratorium have contributed significantly to these results. the eu also continues to be the most important source of funding for organisations campaigning against the death penalty. however, i believe that the concrete initiatives of these organisations must find the necessary political support. as the european parliament's motion for a resolution is an important support in this respect, my vote was in favour. however, despite the positive developments, 58 countries retain the death penalty and the statistics on the number of convicts are worrying. last year, more than 700 people were executed, in addition to the thousands of allegedly condemned in china. i would therefore like to draw attention to the need to step up efforts to influence international public opinion. even in some eu member states, a significant proportion of citizens would support the introduction of the death penalty.
in writing. − the european union is committed to its priority human rights objective the complete abolition of the death penalty worldwide and the declaration adopted by the european parliament's plenary on the world day against the death penalty confirms this. the fact that many states still apply the death penalty, the most cruel, inhuman and degrading of all, and even more so to women and even minors, is beyond comprehension. and it becomes all the more incomprehensible since there is no evidence whatsoever that the death penalty discourages crime any more than other punishments do. it is important that the european union continues its efforts to cooperate between states because only in this way, through collaboration, education, awareness-raising, will it be able to fulfil your desire to abolish the death penalty worldwide. key to achieving the number one human rights goal for the european union is also the work of the non-governmental sector, which has reported cases of unfair trials that have resulted in brutal sentences such as the one handed down in iran against a boy who was only 16 years old at the time of the alleged crime.
in writing. − one of the first measures taken by the provisional government in bucharest, after the collapse of the ceausescu regime, following the popular uprisings in timisoara and bucharest, was the abolition of the death penalty. it was a reparative gesture, first of all towards the political victims of the totalitarianisms that dominated romania since the 1930s. i recall this episode in recent european history because the european parliament's resolution on the world day against the death penalty responds to an anachronistic reality for the 21st century: the death penalty is still present in the legislation of many countries, including some that are active promoters of civil rights and freedoms globally. not only does the death penalty not deter crime, it does not reduce crime, but it also raises the very real problem of possible miscarriages of justice, which would send innocent people to their deaths. the invitation by the member states of the european union to the countries still applying this penalty to adopt a moratorium on the execution of sentences seems to me to be one of the main advantages of this resolution, and this is what led me to vote in favour of it.
in writing. − this year, 12 countries have carried out capital punishment, despite the condemnation of this inhumane punishment by most countries in the world and international institutions, including the united nations. i believe that the push for the abolition of the death penalty in the 43 countries that still have it in their national legislation must become a priority in the european policy of promoting human rights, especially for the work of the new european external action service.
in writing. − the recent accident in the gulf of mexico, following an explosion on an offshore oil rig, would be sufficient argument in itself for all those who are called upon to consider and vote on the european parliament's resolution on eu action in the field of oil exploration and extraction in europe. as the body of the resolution points out, europe is not immune from such incidents with devastating environmental impact either, because most oil drilling and extraction takes place in the north sea. and now such activity is intensifying in the black sea area, a sea that already has enough problems from human activities. as specified in the resolution, the commission is called upon to develop rigorous, eu-wide policies in the field of accident prevention for oil platforms, which can be an important step in preventing possible incidents and accidents. these are some of the reasons why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe that europe urgently needs a common european system for preventing and responding to oil spills across borders. as eu waters also border non-eu countries for which eu law does not provide for the obligation to comply with provisions on liability and compensation, the european commission needs to develop policies in the field of accident prevention for oil platforms and extend the scope of the seveso ii directive to oil platforms. the current environmental liability legislation contains a number of important shortcomings and i therefore consider it necessary to introduce new legislation to take into account the risks inherent in offshore exploitation and to regulate liability in the event of accidents in the oil sector. the absence of an oil disaster compensation fund requires that in future the commission include mandatory financial guarantee provisions in the environmental liability directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it deals with a subject of the utmost importance. however, i would point out that the problem had to be approached in a more general context. the european commission is currently reviewing eu environmental liability legislation and should propose solutions to avoid environmental disasters such as the recent one in hungary, created by the dumping of a large amount of red mud.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 10th conference of the parties to the nagoya convention on biological diversity, primarily because i am convinced that the preservation of biological diversity is a factor in sustainable development for developing countries. and the fact that neither the global biodiversity target for 2010 to significantly reduce the rate of biodiversity loss, nor the eu target to halt biodiversity loss, has been met, makes further action to achieve them all the more urgent. another worrying phenomenon is the illegal use of genetic resources, which often leads to negative effects on the target countries of such practices. i agree that biodiversity conservation issues are only sporadically present in public debate, and therefore support the motion in the body of the resolution for a more sustained and applied effort to promote biodiversity conservation measures among citizens. we need their understanding and support. just as important, i think, is the effort to make biodiversity conservation part of civic education in our countries.
in writing. − given that halting biodiversity loss is not an urgent priority on the european and international political calendar, i welcome the implementation and adoption of a set of concrete, science-based indicators to measure progress on biodiversity towards the european union's strategic objectives and targets.
in writing. − the international community has not remained indifferent and has undertaken numerous solidarity actions to support the people of the african continent. however, the level of development of this sector is still far below that of the west. if we consider that the life expectancy of an african may be as much as thirty or forty years shorter than that of a european, we can say that the problem remains, even at this hour, a major one. ladies and gentlemen, i support the solutions proposed in mrs de keyser's report and draw attention to the fact that the real solution to the problem on the african continent depends as much on building the foundations of the health system as on providing aid on time. to paraphrase a famous saying, i believe that if you give a patient a medicine, you have helped him for a day. if you give him the basics of a health system, you're helping him for his whole life; him and his children. that's why i'm advocating a balanced funding policy!
in writing. − in my view, the main merit of the resolution on health systems in sub-saharan africa and global health is that it addresses the issue from the specificities of the area under discussion. it is about the objective difficulty of grafting a model of the organization of social protection systems, specific to western civilization, into a completely different context. the failure of many projects for developing countries in the developing world has its origin in the absolutization of the western-centric approach, whether it was europe or the united states. this has led to a waste of resources and created additional problems for the countries concerned. the specific situation of the area makes it even more apparent that we cannot treat health as a commodity, so we need to identify non-profit health insurance based on the values of solidarity and democracy. progress made over time, including through contributions from eu member states, can be undone by a hasty approach from a mercantilist perspective. it seems to me that the resolution addresses the problem correctly and coherently, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − cohesion policy is the most effective instrument for implementing european policies at regional level. the resolution adopted today contains important elements for achieving a close link with the objectives of strategy 2020. the 2014-2021 budgetary framework should support an ambitious cohesion policy in terms of resources allocated. also, given the impact of the economic crisis on the less developed regions, the convergence objective must continue to dominate. for romania, the implementation of this policy allows for real convergence with the other states of the union, especially since all 8 development regions of my country can benefit from structural funds. the attraction and optimal use of these would have resulted in a 15% increase in gdp over the next 5 years. the limited administrative capacity of the management units within ministries, however, meant that the absorption rate remained one of the lowest in europe. for this reason, i believe that it would be useful to reorganise these existing management structures at the level of ministries and apply strict criteria of competence in the selection of staff. in addition, i believe that macro-regional strategies such as the danube strategy should be maintained as a priority axis of this policy.
in writing. − i believe that the european social fund should remain within the framework of the regulation on general provisions relating to cohesion policy funds, but i believe that it needs to operate on the basis of its own rules.
in writing. − the european social fund is a key instrument that contributes to strengthening economic and social cohesion in the eu countries. optimal financial support for the fund would strengthen the sense of solidarity among european citizens, especially in the new member states. for the period 2007-2013, the european union has allocated approximately €3.5 million to romania for the european social fund. operational programmes focus on two areas. the first is aimed at developing human capital and the second aims at improving the service and public policy infrastructure through the 'administrative capacity building' programme. in this context, the potential of the structural funds needs to be strengthened by simplifying and improving procedures. the main objective is to help member states optimise employment and the active participation of citizens in society. in the future, the european social fund will have to play an important role in supporting the europe 2020 strategy. this will certainly require action at both european and national level.
in writing. − as the structural funds remain to a large extent the main funding instrument for social objectives, i believe that economic, social and territorial cohesion must be strengthened by improving employability and employment opportunities, encouraging a high level of employment and ensuring more and better quality jobs.
mr president, there will be no successfully united europe without a far-sighted vision of how our common interests must be promoted outside the borders of the union at global level. such a vision will not last without an ambitious, accountable, efficient and ‘communautarian’ external action service. such a service will not function effectively without staff recruited on the basis of merit. i believe most of us can agree on these principles. the devil is, however, in the detail. and it is precisely these details, which have transformed a report that was meant to be technical into a source of passionate political debate which risks dividing us deeply. there is no dilemma between ‘communautarianism’ and intergovernmentalism, between merits or quotas, between old and new member states. nevertheless the triumph of ‘communautarianism’ requires that each and every national of each and every member state feels fairly treated on the basis of their merits. the triumph of the merit criterion must be tested by the equilibrium of the results of the selection, since god, i believe, distributed merits and sins in a balanced way to men and women, old and young, small and big, weak and powerful, westerners and easterners etc. the fact of the matter is that some in our union – mainly but not only among the new members – feel they are discriminated against. even if this perception were wrong, we should still treat it with respect and care since our unity is of the utmost importance. it is not the criteria which are being questioned, but the insufficiency of guarantees that they will be properly enhanced, and of corrective measures to be applied when imbalances are obvious. i can only hope that the high representative will correct the imbalances in the process which apparently fuelled these perceptions, and i also hope that a future european diplomatic academy, or something similar, will help us to create a corps of european diplomats who are competent and loyal to our common interest and to the european institutions.
in writing. the vote shows that there is neither equality between member states nor solidarity within a political group. the adoption of the socialist amendment introducing the 'merit' criterion in the selection of eu heads of delegation (diplomats who will represent the union in third countries) will demonstrate to us, once it is applied by the external action service of the socialist catherine ashton, that romania and other new member states will be left with dust on the drum. i regret that, once again, we were unable to adopt a united position in favour of romania's interests at the level of romanian representatives in the european parliament. i would have expected adrian severin, as a former foreign minister (even for a few months), to support introducing clear criteria in the allocation of the posts of heads of delegation (number of inhabitants, number of seats in the european parliament and share of votes in the council) instead of a very subjective and ambiguous criterion of 'merit'. especially since, as far as i know, intelligence is evenly distributed across the eu and not all the smart ones have been clustered in the west and only the stupid ones have been left in the east. but in diplomacy, romania has representatives who deserve to be heads of delegation.
in writing. the european external action service should contribute to the achievement of the objective of the treaty of lisbon, namely the achievement of effective and coherent external action by the union. the current staff selection procedure is a long and complex process and the filling of posts is gradual until the numbers corresponding to the full operationalisation of the service are reached. a number of new eu countries, particularly the last two of the last wave of enlargement, are underrepresented in the external relations department of dg relex. mrs catherine ashton has already expressed her wish that the eeas should be composed of the best officials selected on professional grounds, rather than on the basis of their countries of origin. we remind mrs ashton that eu states have all the same rights and as such there is a need for adequate representation in the structures of the new european diplomatic service, both at the brussels headquarters and in the eu delegations. we therefore call on mrs ashton to take account of the fact that the european union has 27 member states. they must be able to contribute, through their representatives in the eeas, to the achievement of the union's foreign policy objectives and to the credibility of that institution before all european citizens.
in writing. we are in the final stages of the decisions that will enable the launch of the european external action service. i support a compromise on the staff regulations and the financial regulation which would allow the high representative to have a functioning service by december this year. however, this support is not a blank check. the high representative must fulfil his commitment already undertaken on several occasions to ensure fair representation in the european external action service of member states, such as romania, which are under-represented in the external relations structures of the commission and the council to be transferred to the eeas. it is not a question of national control of the eeas, but of the interest in having staff recruited also on the basis of the criterion of geographical balance. this criterion is not incompatible with the criterion of competence.
in writing. – the final steps in creating the eeas have been discussed today and will be voted tomorrow. there were tough negotiations between the three pillars of the union: the council, the commission and the parliament, so each, even if not completely satisfied, saw its main interests safeguarded. during the entire process, emphasis was placed inevitably on the national representation of the member states in the staffing process. things were not helped when, in spite of the ongoing negotiations to set its rules, the process continued unabated and, as a consequence, only some countries have seen their representatives getting the positions they were seeking. however, i think that the main challenge to the new service lies less in composition than in substance: if we want the members of the eeas to be truly european, then we will have to provide them with a truly european foreign policy to implement. in that respect, both the multi-polar structure of the international system and the current crisis are important obstacles to be dealt with vigorously. otherwise, the eeas will only pursue the national objectives of the individual members.
in 1992, the united nations declared october 17 to be the world day against poverty. in 2000, the world body committed itself to halving the proportion of people living in extreme poverty within 15 years. we're two-thirds of the way through the deadline. the numbers are alarming, we're falling behind the markers. but the demand is high, the expectations are high. in the eu, 73% of the population consider the increasing poverty in their country to be the main problem. 89% of citizens want immediate action to tackle poverty and 74% expect the eu to play an important role in eradicating poverty. in contrast, 6 million eu citizens have lost their jobs in the last two years and child poverty has increased. although we recognise and refer to employment as the most effective tool in the fight against poverty, the social europe model proposed by jean monnet has been overshadowed by economic interests. the aim of economic development is to ensure the well-being of citizens, but without effective social measures, without drastically reducing the current level of poverty, this is of no use. social policy is, of course, primarily the task and responsibility of the member states, but i believe that we must find answers to the most pressing questions together by making greater use of the open method of coordination and by promoting the exchange of good practice.
the lisbon targets of creating more jobs and eradicating poverty by 2010 have not been met, and europe must continue to work towards them. i believe that the union and the member states must pay particular attention to lifelong learning programmes. they are a way of combating poverty and social exclusion and help to strengthen the capacity for integration into the labour market and the workplace. on the other hand, i believe that the european executive should analyse the areas where the shortage of qualified staff is increasing, in order to be able to subsequently promote measures to cover this shortage. one possible measure would be to extend the erasmus programme, currently aimed at students, to other socio-professional categories, for example young people without university studies or unemployed people in vocational retraining programmes.
member of the commission. − madam president, poverty is a tragedy for individuals as well as for society. poverty leads to violence, crime and conflict. i would like to thank the european parliament for putting the fight against poverty so high on the agenda and today’s debate demonstrates european determination to address this challenge. the europe 2020 strategy, ms figueiredo’s report, activities in the member states – these are all steps in the right direction. i would like to emphasise that as long as global poverty exists – with 1.4 billion people living on less than one dollar a day – we cannot expect to also solve this issue inside the european union. that means the millennium development goals policy is a policy that also matters to us. i believe that we are trying to find the right solution and it is inclusive economic growth -of our partner countries and also in the european union. i know inclusive economic growth sounds rather simple, but that is exactly what we are trying to address in changing our development policies. the eu 2020 strategy also goes in this direction.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech i had deliberately confined myself to the development aspect of the fight against poverty. a few words, of course, on the union. the belgian presidency has focused on developing instruments in the field of combating poverty and social exclusion, in particular through the implementation of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy. the objectives of the strategy approved by the council on 7 june 2010 include the promotion of social inclusion, with a particular focus on poverty reduction. this objective is to remove at least 20 million people from the risk of poverty or exclusion by 2020 on the basis of three indicators proposed by the social protection committee, namely the risk of poverty, material deprivation and living in households without a job. the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion also aims to raise public awareness of the problem and to convey the message that poverty and exclusion undermine social and economic developments. it also aims to challenge the view that poverty reduction is a cost to society and to reaffirm the importance of collective responsibility involving not only policy makers but also public and private sector actors. the belgian presidency has been keen to take part in this year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. let me mention some of the initiatives and events organised on this occasion. a conference on child poverty was held in september. the aim of this conference was to give momentum to the european debate on the adoption of a recommendation on child poverty to break the vicious cycle of the reproduction of poverty from generation to generation. in response specifically to our colleague mr daerden, a round table is being held today in brussels. it focuses on the implementation of the recommendation on active inclusion with its three pillars: minimum income, inclusive labour market and access to quality services. another conference on the social economy will be held on 27 and 28 october and the conference on homelessness will be held on 9 and 10 december. finally, on 17 december, on the sidelines of the european council, the official closing session of the year of combating poverty will take place, with the presentation of best practices and highlights of the year. this, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, is the concrete expression of the belgian presidency's ambition to place social issues at the top of the european agenda.
in writing. in 2009, europe felt the full impact of the global economic crisis, and the effects of this period on the level of poverty at community level were devastating, especially for the 17% of europeans living below the poverty line in 2008. unfortunately, that share has most likely increased. only now, in 2010, are we beginning to see hope that the overall economic situation may improve. our strongest efforts must be directed towards the europeans most affected by the crisis, especially as 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. in view of the objective of eradicating absolute and child poverty by 2015 and the objective of substantially reducing relative poverty, i too draw attention to the need for the european union to urgently introduce national minimum income thresholds that offer protection from the risk of poverty and ensure social inclusion for all european citizens.
in writing. the eu 2020 target of reducing the number of europeans living below the poverty line by 25%, representing more than 20 million people, should contribute to the development of national policies to protect citizens against the risk of poverty. women represent a significant segment of the population threatened with poverty due to unemployment (the unemployment rate rising from 7.4% in 2008 to 9% in 2009), unshared caring responsibilities, precarious and low-paid jobs, wage discrimination and lower pensions. in romania, 25% of women (the european average is 17%) and 33% of children live in poverty. romania is the second poorest country in the european union, with 23% of the population. the minimum wage barely reaches 140 euros, and the average gross wage does not rise above 460 euros. calls on the member states to take concrete measures to create decent and sustainable jobs, to promote adequate income and social protection systems to prevent and reduce poverty, in particular extreme poverty, and to develop long- and medium-term strategies that include a gender perspective and are mainstreamed in all relevant policy areas.
in writing. − the member states of the union should contribute to the establishment of a european database on the monthly sea transport of goods or passengers and the vessels carrying them. the eu's specialised service, eurostat, will thus be able to produce european statistics on all modes of transport in accordance with eu standards. the exploitation of these data will then contribute to the establishment of the european integrated system of statistical data in this field with a view to achieving a maximum level of comparability between modes of transport in european countries.
in writing. − the community of european shipbuilding associations (cesa) estimates that global shipbuilding requirements will decline by 2014 as a result of the global financial crisis, and that the shipbuilding industry will move to low-cost areas, particularly in asia, in the future. in the absence of a european policy to support the shipping sector, it is unlikely that it will return to the production level before the current crisis. in my home town of galati, the damen shipyard is also suffering from the effects of the economic and financial crisis, laying off some 600 workers in 2009 alone, and another 500 are expected to be laid off in 2010. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) requested by denmark for the co-financing of the support programme for 951 workers made redundant in the region of north jutland between 15 february 2009 and 14 november 2009 with eur 7 521 359. the redundancies occurred in 45 enterprises producing machinery and equipment for the naval sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of the request from nl/nxp semiconductors in the netherlands. on 26 march 2010, the netherlands requested financial assistance from the egf in respect of 512 redundancies out of 590 in nxl semiconductors, which operates in the electronics sector in the nuts ii regions of gelderland and eindhoven. of the total number of persons made redundant, 425 are men, 87 are women, and 7 of the workers (1.3%) have serious health problems or a disability. the netherlands underlines the significant impact of these redundancies, as nxp semiconductors is the largest industrial employer in the area, providing jobs to a significant number of low-skilled workers who have worked for several decades in the company. the lack of job opportunities in similar enterprises in the region will be particularly problematic for workers with specialised experience in semiconductor manufacturing. the mobilisation of the egf is particularly important for the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market. however, i would draw the attention of the commission and the member states to the need to develop an eu industrial policy that is sustainable and creates new jobs.
in writing. − in january 2010, spain submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in view of the redundancies in 23 companies in the catalan region in the production of road transport vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the mobilisation of the egf to provide aid for people made redundant. the redundancies occurred in the context of the financial and economic crisis, which caused a sharp decline in demand for vehicles in spain and worldwide, at an unprecedented rate. in the period february-november 2009, in the region of catalonia alone, there were 2 330 redundancies in the automotive sector, 75% of the workers being men and almost 25% of them over 55 years old. i advocate that the people who are laid off receive financial support and training so that they can get a new job for as long as possible.
in writing. - i voted to combat precarious work, one of the phenomena that is proliferating amid the economic crisis. this will help to eradicate job insecurity, low wages, often undeclared, the lack of social protection for casual workers and a work environment lacking minimum standards of health and safety and protection of workers against accidents. at the same time, these measures will more effectively combat gender discrimination, which dominates the precarious workplace, with women being particularly victims of these inhumane working conditions. the abusive treatment of domestic workers, who are mainly women, wage discrimination against women and the exploitation of migrant women who do not know or cannot defend their rights are all reasons to vote in favour of these actions to counter a revolting socio-economic reality.
in writing. − i believe that member states must fight to be able to offer women jobs, the possibility of trade union protection of rights, as well as decent pay, maternity leave, fair and regular work schedules and a non-discriminatory working environment. i believe that member states must sanction the creation of barriers to trade union membership and also provide easily accessible counselling services for women who cannot benefit from the support of a works council, for example women employed in private households and in agriculture.
in writing. − during the economic and financial crisis, precarious work among citizens, especially women, has become even more pronounced. the permanent jobs that were lost during the economic crisis will certainly not be restored, but will be replaced by atypical and very atypical employment contracts, which will lead to a sharp decline in the level of working conditions. at european level, 31.5% of women work part-time (30 hours a week or less), compared with only 8.3% of men. i believe that the sustainability of the pension system, credit facilities for self-help projects and programmes to create jobs and alternative incomes can improve conditions for women in precarious employment. i call on the european commission and the member states to develop viable strategies on precarious work, with a focus on decent and green jobs and gender mainstreaming. calls on each member state to introduce clear measures to reduce the gender pay gap by 10% by 2020, including pension gaps, in order to improve living standards, combat poverty and stimulate economic growth.
in writing. the 2011 budgetary procedure started with a disappointing proposal from the commission. but rapporteur jędrzejewska promised us that she would be ambitious and fight for a budget that would protect the political priorities of parliament and, in particular, the policies aimed at young people. it followed the council's position, which denotes the council's total lack of ambition, or rather the council's populism, which on the one hand presents ambitious strategies such as europe 2020, but at the same time refuses to allocate sufficient funds for this strategy to have any chance of being realised. but today we are dealing with the parliament's position and it lacks an ambitious vision for the 2011 budget. it's true that we are in a crisis, but it's not with a mediocre project that we can get out of it, but with imagination, political courage and giving ourselves the means to bring about real change.
the figure of 35 000 road deaths means that the population of a small european city is disappearing every year because of road accidents, which i consider extremely serious. 57% of road traffic fatalities are pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists. i think education in particular is missing from school training (because one question here also concerned schoolchildren), and that is why i ask you what measures is the commission taking in the field of education for vulnerable participants in trafficking?
in a volatile economy, late payments have negative effects on smes. improving the system in this respect is an ambitious goal and also necessary for the timely payment of employees and suppliers. the new rules on late payment in commercial transactions should facilitate and accelerate the recovery of money owed by companies. i think it's essential that all parties are on an equal footing and that the rules apply to everyone. in the last three years in romania over 30 thousand smes have disappeared as a result of the financial blockade. one cause is the delay in payment by the state for goods and services. finally, i would like to express my support for this proposal for a directive which encourages better monitoring and evaluation of the trading system.
in writing. the late payments directive provides a vital tool for building a fair and equitable relationship between authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises. once in force, this directive will punish insolvent authorities and give businessmen significant leverage to recover their debts. such legislation was needed to balance the market and provide the private sector with guarantees that the authority is an equal player, who can be held accountable when it does not respect the rules of the game. the directive provides for a reasonable period of 30 days for payments and for derogations of up to 60 days only in special cases such as hospitals and for compensation and interest for late payment. although the form adopted is more lenient with the insolvency authorities than the european commission's original proposal, the directive provides sufficient support to both small and medium-sized enterprises and large companies which, in many eu member states, face difficulties in recovering money for services rendered. i am disappointed that the 5% penalty has been removed, but i see this backsliding as a strategic way of winning the support of as many union countries as possible in the council debates.
we really need to be in solidarity with the hungarian state, especially at this time when the ecological disaster has spread and the toxic substance discharged from the plant's tanks has already reached the danube waters. for this reason, i ask the european commission to be directly involved in the management of the situation, to support the hungarian state by all means and to ask the responsible authorities to submit documents and data on the following issues: a report on the effects of each chemical compound identified in the ecosystems, a report including the quantities spilled and detailing the effects of the spill on fauna and flora, as well as a report on the measures taken by the hungarian authorities, more precisely the amount of chemicals that were dumped as a countermeasure and the effects of the new substances on the environment. given the gravity of the situation and the danger posed by these toxic spills, i believe we must act as quickly as possible. the european commission is the only one able to request this information in order to prevent the ecological disaster from spreading to the other member states bordering the danube and, where appropriate, to take immediate action to combat the effects of this disaster. that is why i am going to put a written question to the commission, because i expect that, in addition to the preparation of a strategy to prevent such disasters in the future, it will present us as soon as possible with concrete measures to be applied immediately in the event of an ecological catastrophe in hungary. i am extremely concerned about the consequences that this disaster may have for romania as well.
madam president, this drama reminds us of our responsibility as politicians. it is not an urgent matter to come up with another new law, another legislative package. we already have a full environmental acquis in the european mining waste directive. the problem in europe is not about having a proper legislative framework, but about the proper implementation of these laws by the member states. obviously, companies have had way too much leverage in negotiating with national authorities over what constitutes hazardous waste that should fall under the strictest safety standards. furthermore, i am honestly worried when i hear of the large number of toxic deposits all across the danube region and of over 1 000 contaminated sites in romania alone. i think the first priority in terms of prevention should be to list these sites in europe. we cannot afford to wait until 2012 for this to come into force. member states should voluntarily share this information with the commission as quickly as possible. this case also demonstrates that the commission should be given more means to ensure correct implementation of environmental law, especially in central and eastern europe. it also shows that the commission should also be given more resources to investigate quality control and inspection of these dangerous sites. last but not least, i should like to emphasise that the basic principle should be that polluters pay for the environmental damage they cause. this is why i am unsure that the use of the eu solidarity fund for natural disasters would be appropriate, as it may undermine this principle at the core of the environmental liability directive.
i want to express my sympathy for what happened and make the following remarks. green peace estimates that this accident is far more serious than the one that happened at baia mare in 2000. i would point out that there was no loss of life at the time, and the effects over time were relatively small. however, meps in hungary initiated a resolution calling for a ban on cyanide mining, without presenting an alternative, with the sole aim of blocking the roşia montana mining project. we regret to note that after ten years, major risks to human and environmental safety still exist in europe. this is the result of insufficient or poorly implemented environmental and disaster prevention regulations. the criteria for classifying toxic and hazardous waste must be revised. note that red sludge, such as that produced by the kolontar accident, is not classified as hazardous waste.
in writing. i express my solidarity with the people affected by the ecological disaster in hungary earlier this month. i think this is a time for us to show some decency, without parades or thematic exhibitions, without exploiting this unfortunate industrial accident on a visual level. the incident in hungary provides us with an important lesson. economic activity is not, in itself, dangerous, as long as strict environmental protection rules are respected. it is only when community regulations are ignored that entire ecosystems are threatened. the accident in hungary is also an example of solidarity at european level. a team of experts from various countries has travelled to the country to assist the authorities in their efforts to counter the devastating effects on the population and the environment. i also believe that it is time to reconsider the support for a european civil protection force. it must be continuously operational to respond promptly and professionally to the various disasters that are increasingly occurring on our continent and around the world.
in writing. i regret the loss of life caused by the dumping of industrial waste in hungary. we have natural phenomena, like floods, that we can't always prevent and we can't always control their effects. but as far as industrial waste with the potential to be destructive to human life and the environment is concerned, we have rules in the european union. but unfortunately we find that these rules are not respected in every member state; i therefore propose that the commission should set itself the objective of checking the quality of the national institutions responsible for applying european rules on the disposal of potentially hazardous industrial waste. this verification should be done as a priority in the member states admitted to the eu in 2004 and 2007.
as we all know, 2010 was supposed to be the european year of the fight against poverty, social exclusion, discrimination and xenophobia. but in reality, i think the battle has been lost, at least this year. the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is becoming more critical rather than improving. in the context of the economic and financial crisis, in some member states it is the governments that are amplifying the phenomena of discrimination: deportations, ethnic databases for roma are already proven facts. as long as the commission cannot guarantee the application of fundamental rights in the union, its image as the defender of fundamental rights will suffer. it's a risk this institution can't afford. madam vice-president reding, will the commission investigate and investigate the other cases of discrimination reported in the member states? can the commission still complete its investigations, given the political pressures it is under?
discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity is explicitly prohibited by the european union and international law. yet, there is often a suspicion that some member states discriminate against minorities living in their territory in a disguised manner. i'm not here to talk about covert discrimination, but to bring attention to an existing law that openly disadvantages a national minority community. although the new slovak government has amended the law on the protection of the state language in a positive way, it still includes fines, making the legislation perfectly suited to intimidate and keep citizens with non-slovak native languages in doubt. the venice commission, in its resolution on the law, clearly states that the law is contrary to the european charter for regional or minority languages and unjustifiably restricts the use of minority languages. i would like to ask the commission, the commissioner and the european parliament to investigate and condemn any practice of ethnic or racial discrimination which is taking place in the union.
a month ago, the european parliament expressed concern about the mass expulsion of roma citizens and rejected any link between crime and immigration. romania has also been promoting a european strategy for roma inclusion since 2007, an idea also highlighted at the european council in september. i would stress that no satisfactory solution has been found so far. on the contrary, media reports on the existence of the french mens database call into question the respect of the principle of non-discrimination. i believe that the commission should initiate an investigation in the member states concerned to ensure that administrative procedures do not result from ethnic profiling. in conclusion, i would like to welcome the official commitment made last friday by the french government to comply with european legislation on free movement. france and romania must act together to facilitate the social inclusion of roma and to obtain the necessary funding.
it seems that the effects of the crisis are far from being removed at the moment, and i would therefore like to recall in this context the important role played by economic and social cohesion policy and, not least, the sine qua non condition it represents. this policy has become an essential element of the economic recovery package, generating added value and supporting efforts to modernise and sustain economic growth, while demonstrating european solidarity. i think that we need, first of all, major investment in infrastructure of all kinds, whether it be transport, energy or telecommunications. we need substantial capital investment from multiple sources of both public and private funding, including through public-private partnerships, which in my view are still not being used to their full potential.
in writing. the current economic crisis demonstrates that the existing economic governance model in the eu has not worked well enough, failing to achieve full convergence between member states. in this context, an improved economic framework and the establishment of ambitious monitoring instruments that are clearer and better focused are needed. it is essential that member states comply with the rules and decisions laid down at european level, in particular those of the stability and growth pact. in this connection, i would like to welcome mr feio's initiative, which encourages, among other things, the development of more controls and a closer monitoring of the evolution of public debt and revenue. finally, i would like to add that the romanian government recently adopted the fiscal strategy for 2011-2013 which includes the necessary measures to return to a budget deficit below 3% and to keep the debt below the 60% threshold. this reform process will ensure that the necessary conditions for economic recovery are created.
in writing. the regulatory structures that existed before the economic and monetary crisis in the european union and the united states were inconsistent and relied heavily on dispersed macroeconomic analysis. in the absence of global consistency of these regulatory structures, states have reacted on their own. they have not taken into account that, in a globalised world, monetary policies adopted at national level have a considerable effect on other economies. the creation of the european systemic risk board and the european system of financial supervisors strengthens financial supervision within the eu. however, there is still insufficient regulation at international level on crisis management in the financial sector. at the g20 meeting in november 2010, the union should underline the importance of a supervisory and regulatory system that imposes, inter alia, the obligation to register financial transactions and instruments. we have an economic responsibility and we must first be strong at the level of the european union in order to be able to be leaders at the global level.
in writing. europe has started to recover economically, but the context remains uncertain. the global economic recovery remains fragile, and the pace of the process varies from country to country. the first priority remains the creation of a stable base that regularly generates sustained and balanced economic growth. to this end, we need to create a system that allows for simultaneous crisis response, prevention and cooperation in the medium and long term. the european union must be a strong partner, able to impose its experience in economic and political integration, but also to make a substantial contribution to global economic governance. we need to create credible and viable economic policies in the medium term and coordinate macroeconomic policy based on a framework for sustained and balanced growth developed by the g20. a strategy for the union's economic policies should include: an action plan on the use of structural reforms to strengthen growth and employment; strengthened fiscal reform; and strengthening economic governance of the eu and the euro area. it is necessary to adopt a g20 development agenda with a multiannual action plan to promote growth and flexibility for developing countries.
in writing. the eu, with its 500 million citizens, representing 7% of the world's population, accounts for 30% of global gdp. according to the latest statistics, the eu recorded a trade deficit of eur 17.3 billion in august 2010. in the first half of this year, the eu recorded the largest increases in exports to brazil (+57%), china (+41%) and turkey (+38%), and for imports the largest increases were recorded in relation to russia (+43%), china and india (both +25%). to achieve the objectives of the 'eu 2020 strategy', the eu should reduce its energy dependence on its traditional suppliers. in the first half of this year, the eu27's energy trade deficit increased by eur 34.3 billion compared with the same period last year. the union also needs an eco-efficient industrial policy that links the eu's innovation capacity to its production facilities, thereby creating jobs within the union and maintaining the eu's global competitiveness. the european council should therefore include on its agenda for 28-29 october the future industrial policy and energy security of the eu, as well as proposals on mitigating the effects of climate change and demography.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation. it contains technical, financial and administrative details and clarifies the interinstitutional relations that this european service and its structures must have. we all wanted and we all want the eu to be a strong and recognised actor in foreign policy. for this we also need rules, european regulations adapted to the mission.
in writing. - i believe, as do other colleagues, that the eeas needs autonomy within the european staff regulations. i support the provision that union officials and temporary staff from member states and diplomatic services respectively must have the same rights and be eligible for the new posts. i hope that the widest possible geographical recruitment, and i am talking about the new member states, will become a reality.
in writing. − the results of the vote on the rapkay report show that a considerable number of meps from new member states either abstained or voted against it. i was one of the meps who abstained. my main concern was the lack of ambition of its wording on the principle of geographical balance within the employment policy and staff of the future european external action service (eeas). the report failed to introduce a legally binding commitment to geographical balance in eeas, thus relying only on political promises made by key eu decision- makers on foreign affairs. this is why most new member states do not feel reassured by the proper application of the principle of geographical balance in the future eeas. it is regrettable that the rapporteur chose such a minimalist line, while the reluctance of the council to explicitly accept this binding commitment raises even more concern. i am calling on the council and the commission to examine the voting result on this report closely and deliver on their promises of respecting the geographical balance principle while recruiting the future staff of eeas. it will be one of the meps’ priorities to monitor this process closely in future .
in writing. - i agree with the other members who do not support the budget cuts proposed by the council. the best argument is the situation of the member states which have done so internally. i am referring specifically to romania. the pressure on consumption, the freezing of consumption, did not get us out of the crisis, but it generated unprecedented social pressure. i'm also in favour of increasing the milk fund by 300 million euros. we have had the same attitude of supporting additional financial allocations throughout the european crisis to this product. i strongly support the idea of the european stabilisation mechanism and the need for the two new budget lines to be concrete, covered with figures and not empty as they are now, so that this instrument of european intervention becomes concrete, not just theoretical. i hope that in the conciliation process parliament's view will be respected, that an agreement will be reached with the council and that we will be able to vote in november on the union's 2011 budget.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the european parliament identifies among its most important priorities youth, education and mobility policies. i have in turn argued on several occasions that these are essential and necessary parts of the eu's economic recovery strategy and the europe 2020 strategy. youth, education and mobility require specific cross-sectoral investments in the appropriate policies to foster eu growth and development. i therefore support the need to increase appropriations for all programmes related to these priorities, namely 'lifelong learning', 'people' and 'erasmus mundus'. the commission is also proposing to increase the appropriations for the european employment services network. to this end, i support the launch of the 'your first eures job' preparatory action to help young people enter the labour market or access to specialised jobs in another member state as a first step towards a non-academic youth mobility programme.
in writing. − i agree with extending maternity leave to a minimum of 20 weeks and to be paid 100%, but with some flexibility for countries that already have provisions for this type of leave. women who take maternity leave must receive full pay, 100% of the last month's salary or the average of monthly wages. the amendments adopted will prevent the dismissal of pregnant women from the beginning of their pregnancy until six months after the end of maternity leave. furthermore, women must have the right to return to their position, or to a position with the same remuneration, occupational category and job description as those held before the start of maternity leave.
in writing. − the eu is currently facing demographic difficulties, driven by a falling birth rate and an increasing number of older people. improving work-life balance provisions is one way of responding to this demographic decline. it is clear that gender stereotypes persist in society, representing an obstacle to women's access to jobs, and especially to quality jobs. women are still seen as the main carers of children and other dependants, often facing the need to choose between motherhood and a career. women are often perceived as 'high risk', 'second class' or 'unsuitable' workers, given their high probability of becoming pregnant and their right to maternity leave. it is therefore essential that new forms of leave do not reflect or reinforce existing stereotypes in society. parental involvement in a child's life, from the earliest months of life, is very important for the healthy physical, emotional and psychological development of the child.
in writing. − i voted for an increase in safety and health at work for pregnant workers both on the basis of the principle of gender equality and non-discrimination on the basis of gender and to stimulate a better participation of women in the labour market. one of the effects of this measure is to create a balance between family and professional life for women. women also need this legislative support to protect their health and that of their child. another important aspect, concerning the occupational safety of women, concerns the prohibition of dismissal during the period from the beginning of pregnancy until at least six months after the end of maternity leave. also meeting the need for social security is the establishment of a salary ceiling for maternity leave. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. − statistics show that the birth rate in the eu is declining. with this low birth rate and with an ageing population, we will face a real problem in the future with pension payments and healthcare payments in europe. families, especially women, should not be penalized if they want to have children. pregnant and breastfeeding workers must not perform work which, following assessments, presents a risk of exposure to certain agents or particularly harmful working conditions, endangering the safety or health of such workers. i therefore support the idea of measures to promote the improvement of the safety and health of workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, measures which must not disadvantage women in the labour market or act to the detriment of the directives on equal treatment between women and men.
in writing. − extending maternity leave to 20 weeks and paying 100% for this period are measures that restore the dignity of mothers. that is why i voted unreservedly in favour of the report, confident that the member states will follow our decision and implement it in their national legislation. in addition to support for mothers, the report recommends that states introduce fully paid parental leave, which recognizes the role of both parents in raising a child. we have sent an important signal through today's vote, which calls for a decent life, transcending national ideological boundaries and social systems.
in writing. − the european parliament today made an investment in the future of the european union by promoting maternity by extending maternity leave to 20 weeks with full pay. progress can be made in terms of both quantity and quality. the simplistic argument of short-term economic benefits did not hold, and the sustainability of european society prevailed, which is impossible to achieve without a healthy demography, and therefore implicitly without greater protection for mothers and children. i drafted the opinion of the empl committee and voted for maternity not to be penalized, to be paid in full, pregnant workers not to be dismissed from the beginning of their pregnancy until six months after the end of maternity leave; to have the right to return to their position or to an equivalent post - a position with the same remuneration, the same occupational category and the same job sheet as those held before the start of maternity leave; taking maternity leave not to affect the pension scheme; workers are not required to work nights and overtime during the 10 weeks before the due date for the remainder of the pregnancy, where this is necessary for the health of the mother or the foetus and throughout the period of breastfeeding.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because i believe that the remuneration of maternity leave is a matter to be decided at national level, applying the principle of subsidiarity. moreover, i believe that in a time of crisis, the adoption of this measure may have perverse effects, acting as a deterrent for firms wishing to employ women.
in writing. − today i voted to support improved rights and a better work-life balance for working parents. of special importance in this report are the provisions for women who are breastfeeding at work. breaks for breastfeeding allow mothers the time they need to provide the best and most natural form of nutrition for their developing child. nutrition is a key determinant of health throughout life. i am pleased that this report is favourable to those mothers who have gone back to work and still choose to breastfeed their child and provide them with the nutritional benefits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth or workers who are breastfeeding. i think it is extremely important that women workers on maternity leave are paid their full salary and that the maternity allowance is 100% of their last monthly salary or of their average salary, if the monthly salary is less than that. thus, women will not be penalised for the maternity leave period. in view of demographic developments in the union, it is necessary to stimulate births through specific legislation and measures to contribute to a better reconciliation of work, private and family life. to help workers reconcile their work and family life, it is essential to provide for longer maternity and paternity leave, including for the adoption of children under 12 months of age. the establishment of the legal duration of maternity leave at 20 weeks is in line with the recommendation of the world health organisation of 16 april 2002 on a global strategy for the nutrition of infants and young children.
in writing. − in a volatile economy, late payments can have extremely negative effects on small and medium-sized enterprises, which need money to pay their employees and suppliers. the new rules on late payment in commercial transactions, agreed by parliament and the council on 5 october, should facilitate and speed up the recovery of money owed by companies. small and medium-sized enterprises are what keep the economy running, even in times of crisis. this is happening in all european economies. the european parliament has ensured that all parties are on an equal footing and that the rules apply to all, to the benefit of many european small and medium-sized enterprises. the agreement will also remove the role of smes as banks for public enterprises or large companies. alongside the european parliament's recommendation to collect vat from small and medium-sized enterprises only when invoices are collected, the imposition of a clear deadline for payment of invoices helps those struggling to survive in a time of downturn in the markets.
in writing. − i hope that the entry into force of the directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions will benefit the most small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union, which will thus be better protected and will have liquidity to develop investments and create new jobs. i also hope that the directive will allow the development of debt recovery mechanisms, as late payments by public authorities cause imbalances in the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises and, consequently, of the market.
in writing. − the international community has repeatedly confirmed its commitment to combating poverty. such a global approach is necessary because poverty is not limited to the underdeveloped countries of sub-saharan africa or asia, but affects 17% of the eu population. i believe that last month's un summit marked an important development, leading to the adoption of a concrete action plan for achieving the millennium development goals. the eu has set itself the goal of reducing the number of people living in poverty by a quarter by 2020 and allocating 0.7% of gross national income to development aid. in addition, by adopting this report, the european parliament is encouraging the active inclusion of disadvantaged groups and ensuring effective economic and social cohesion. i would like to mention romania's important contribution to the un programmes to combat poverty, worth eur 250 million. since development assistance must be reciprocal, my country will continue to honor its commitments. however, i believe that more attention should be paid to groups at high risk of poverty, such as the rural population or the roma minority.
in writing. − almost 300 000 families in romania receive a minimum income guaranteed by the state, through a law that has been in force since 2001, and for which a budgetary effort of almost 300 million euros is made. in the current economic crisis, which is felt particularly by the population of the least economically developed countries, the european parliament's recommendation to introduce a minimum income system in all member states is a natural step. while no one can dispute the necessity of such a guaranteed minimum income system, it is clear that the system can be subject to abuse. good timing and control of the system is necessary because there is a risk that this system will encourage non-work. to prevent this from happening, it is advisable that those who receive this income and are in a position to do so give hours of work to the community. 85 million people across the union were living below the poverty line at the end of 2008. there are figures that confirm that support is needed, especially when we talk about young or old.
in writing. − with around a fifth of the eu population below the poverty line, with increasing rates for children, young people and the elderly, with the growing share of poor workers in parallel with the proliferation of precarious and low-paid jobs, with 10 member states where the rate of material deprivation affects at least a quarter of the inhabitants, exceeding half of the population in the case of romania and bulgaria - the eu is facing a poverty problem aggravated not only by the recession but also by the anti-social policies of right-wing governments. the minimum income can guarantee social protection to large sections of the population who are now living in poverty. the role of this minimum income is extremely important in avoiding dramatic cases of poverty and stopping social exclusion. to fight poverty effectively also requires improving the quality of jobs and wages, the establishment of the right to income, and everything that implies income from social assistance, pensions, allowances. 2010 is a year of the fight against poverty, continuing the campaign for an inclusive society undertaken by the treaty of lisbon. all the more reason to cast my vote in favor of this campaign.
in writing. − i believe that action is needed at both european and national level to protect consumers from abusive credit and credit card repayment clauses and to establish conditions for access to loans that prevent households from becoming over-indebted and thus poverty and social exclusion:
in writing. − i believe that the risk of deepening poverty in europe must be avoided at all costs as it can have profoundly negative long-term structural effects both socially and economically. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that guaranteeing a reasonable minimum income is indispensable to ensuring a decent level of social protection, especially for the most vulnerable categories of people who have been severely affected by the austerity policies promoted by european governments in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has worsened the situation of the labour market throughout the european union. in the last period alone, some five million jobs have been reported lost, generating poverty and social exclusion in the member states. i strongly support this report because i believe that urgent measures are needed to reintegrate the affected people into the labour market and to guarantee a minimum income capable of ensuring a decent standard of living and a life compatible with human dignity. i believe that we need to develop relevant indicators to enable us to introduce minimum income systems in the member states, thus ensuring an adequate standard of living, fostering social integration and promoting social and economic cohesion throughout the union.
in writing. − poverty is a reality that affects people who do not have enough income to provide an acceptable standard of living, and whose numbers are increasing because of the current crisis. in 2008, 17% (almost 85 million people) of the eu population were at risk of poverty. the rate of at-risk-of-poverty was higher among children and young people aged up to 17 years in relation to the total population, at 20% in the eu-27, with the highest values in romania (33%). the at-risk-of-poverty rate among the working population was on average 8% in the eu-27, with the highest rate also in romania (17%). i voted for the need to adopt a system of calculating minimum income (equivalent to at least 60% of the average income in the member state concerned) in all member states, consisting of specific measures to support people with low incomes by means of a financial contribution and by facilitating access to services. this could be one of the most effective ways of combating poverty, ensuring an adequate standard of living and fostering social inclusion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for two reasons. the first reason is that its authors have done an extraordinary job, which has resulted in a complex analysis of the causes and consequences of the economic crisis on the global economy on the one hand, and on the european economy on the other. the second reason for my vote is that the report contains a number of important recommendations, in that part of the report which argues that the future is a europe of added value. we must recognize that europe has lost, from a narrow view of short-term profit, a great many jobs in high value-added industries, while creating precariousness and poverty in work. it is time to reverse the trend, to re-industrialize the european union, to rebuild its capacity to innovate and create jobs in sectors linked to research and development and new technologies.
in writing. − the transposition of the eu 2020 strategy into national programmes by member states must contribute to the achievement of a competitive, social and sustainable union, with citizens and environmental protection at the heart of policy-making. member states' priorities should be to ensure high quality jobs and the proper functioning of labour markets, social conditions and to improve employment performance. the unemployment rate, at 10% of the eu population on average, reaches 20% in some countries and more than 40% among young people, underlining the importance of high-quality and responsible public spending combined with promoting the entrepreneurial and innovative potential of the private sector to ensure economic and social progress. i voted for the need for member states to develop viable programmes to encourage the labour market by improving incentives and conditions for workers, while at the same time increasing the incentives for employers to recruit and retain staff. at the same time, the focus should be on decent work, including the fight against undeclared work and ensuring access to the labour market for those currently excluded from it.
in writing. − the issue of economic governance at eu level is a thorny one, and the reluctance of some of its members to make new transfers of sovereignty is understandable. the greek crisis has shown the limits of current intervention mechanisms and the inadequacy of the instruments needed to enforce compliance with the convergence criteria, especially in the euro area countries. the development of a coherent and transparent framework for multilateral monitoring of macroeconomic developments in the union and in the member states and the strengthening of fiscal surveillance, as proposed in the document, is a step in the right direction, even if this implies a partial amendment of the constitutional treaty. in general, the recommendations in the document are important and address real problems with relevant solutions. that is why i voted in favour of adopting the document.
in writing. − the recent economic and financial crisis has shown that economic monitoring and coordination at community level requires significant reinforcement. significant macroeconomic imbalances have been observed and many countries are facing major increases in public debt and its share of gross domestic product. i voted for this report because i strongly support all eight of the rapporteur's recommendations which are intended to reflect good governance and economic stability in the european union. i believe that we will face major challenges in the coming years, and to support the eu's growth potential and strengthen public finances, we need to set some priorities and make some difficult choices. coordination at community level will be essential in this respect and can help to eliminate negative effects.
i would like to draw attention to the implementation of the european instrument for democracy and human rights in the separatist transnistrian region of the republic of moldova. transnistria has serious violations of the chapters on democracy and respect for human rights. in this respect, the use of the instrument is a good way to promote democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in the region. projects such as the 2009 project on capacity building, human rights and democratic institutions in the transnistria region of moldova have been launched under the instrument. it involved the involvement of civil society in the region in the democratic process. however, experience has shown that this instrument has not been used to its full potential, with frequent implementation delays and transparency problems. i would like to stress the need to rethink this instrument in order to develop effective implementation strategies in this region.
the common denominator of the three reports we are now discussing is the analysis of instruments for financing development cooperation and actions to promote democracy and human rights worldwide. i think it is natural to have such assessments of development cooperation financing instruments, just as i think it is natural to exercise our right of control in the comitology procedure and to point out a number of problems with regard to the way in which the commission has implemented the instrument and the interpretation it has given to some of its fundamental provisions. i wanted to take the floor to support the deve proposals, which complement the accompanying measures, particularly for the banana sector, proposed by the commission, and on the other hand i would like to recall that the european union's development policy aims at reducing and, in the long term, eradicating poverty. and i believe that beyond human rights and the promotion of democracy, we must not forget this fundamental objective of eradicating poverty.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, ukraine is a very important country to us. it is a country which faces a lot of challenges. i would like to thank the commissioner for a perfect description of the situation, as well as a perfect description of our expectations. a new government was elected through free and fair elections, recognised by all of us. today is the right time to leave this government to deliver, and not to prejudge its achievements or non-achievements from the first minutes of its mandate. the real problem of this debate is a problem we have here. we were too fast in dividing that country into pro-westerners and pro-easterners. now we have a problem, since the pro-westerners are not in power, in recognising the pro-easterners’ capacity to deliver and to help the country promote its european expectations. this is the real problem with this debate today and we should understand that the real pro-europeans are the pro-ukrainians – those who are able to bring the rule of law, democracy and european modernisation to their country. i would conclude simply by asking colleagues to decide to postpone the resolution we are expected to adopt, because the ukrainians are facing elections and they face negotiations with us. we should not adopt resolutions in the middle of a political process and before we have the facts on the basis of which we can indeed draw conclusions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we seem to have difficulties in knowing how to deal with our eastern neighbour, ukraine. it is just as difficult for ukraine, which treats europe one day as an ally, another day as a problem. this is why i believe we should be pragmatic, recognise the realities on the ground, and find common items on our agendas to reach agreements. economic cooperation has always been europe’s most powerful engine for greater integration and europe has owed its success to this pragmatic approach since 1956. so we must continue to focus on both institutional and economic reforms to be undertaken by ukraine in parallel. this two-track approach is the only one possible if we want to create a virtuous circle that could lead to democratic stability in this country and in the eastern neighbourhood. a priority should be to support a healthy business environment and the achievement of a functioning market economy in ukraine by encouraging their property and vat reforms and their efforts to combat high-level corruption, among other priorities. this is why i see the association agreement as a powerful instrument of reform, and it is why we should continue our negotiations on the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area and on ukraine’s accession to the energy community treaty. in that context, i welcome ukraine’s accession to the wto, which should be seen as an important step in ukraine’s acceptance of european economic standards. i hope that we will be able to overcome the continuous postponement of the fta and encourage the virtuous circle of mutual trust, which is beneficial to the whole region and to europe.
mr president, the new ukrainian authorities are new only in name. a regression towards authoritarian practices is sweeping the country. the legal framework for the forthcoming local elections has been altered and could jeopardise the participation of the opposition parties. the constitution has been changed, and a de facto presidential regime is back in place. the media and civil society are under constant pressure, and the ukrainian secret service seems to be reliving its soviet days. it is time for us to clearly express our concern through a resolution. the ukrainian authorities should get the message that closer ties with the eu cannot be guaranteed by friendly declarations alone. an undemocratic ukrainian government cannot be a reliable partner for the eu, especially in the strategically sensitive area of the black sea.
president of the council. - the work is being carried out in consultation with the member states, but i would nevertheless like to say that one can be disappointed, even sceptical, about the speed with which a number of member states are ratifying them. i repeat for the third time that it is true that only 13 member states have ratified it. i don't think there's any particular reason. the way in which member states ratify simply follows a process which may, at times, differ from one member state to another. i do not take refuge in this argument, but i must also tell you that in this matter, as in others, there is still a certain national sovereignty involved in the way the member states proceed with ratification. it is possible to think that things could go faster, that all the member states could work much more closely together from the outset, ... but it is still true that on a number of points it is indeed national sovereignty that is at issue.
president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the member who is not here, but is asking this question, for his interest in the subject in question. it is true that neurodegenerative diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders, nonpsychiatric brain diseases, including epilepsy, are a major concern for many of our citizens. according to article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union shall encourage cooperation between member states in the field of public health and disease prevention. therefore, the approach at eu level is horizontal and focuses on combating stigma and discrimination against people with neurodegenerative diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders and non-psychiatric brain diseases. in this regard, the council, in its conclusions on combating stigma and discrimination related to mental illness of june 2003, invited in particular the member states to pay particular attention to the impact of the problems of stigma and discrimination related to mental illness on all age groups and to ensure that these problems are recognised, paying particular attention in this regard to reducing the risks of social exclusion. in its conclusions of 3 june 2005 on community action in the field of mental health, the council invited the member states to implement the declaration and action plan adopted by the world health organisation's european ministerial conference on mental health in helsinki in january 2005. finally, the council has been particularly active in the fight against another disease belonging to the group of neurodegenerative diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders and non-psychiatric brain diseases, namely alzheimer's disease. in this context, the conclusions of 16 december 2008 on public health strategies to combat age-related neurodegenerative diseases and in particular alzheimer's disease and the conclusions of 3 december 2009 on joint research programming in europe, which cover in particular the launch of the pilot joint programming initiative on combating neurodegenerative diseases and in particular alzheimer's disease, should be mentioned.
president of the council. - i think you are quite right in your observation about the medical quality aspect linked to the different member states. we are still a long way from achieving qualitative harmonisation of the whole of health care management. this is also due to the fact that, it must be admitted, the union's prerogatives in the field of health are still rather limited compared to national prerogatives. you are right, moreover, to mention the crossborder package, because it is an element that can raise a number of qualitative aspects of health care. i should remind you that under the belgian presidency the council is continuing and will continue to negotiate to the end with the aim of bringing the points of view as close as possible to an agreement at second reading on this package on crossborder care. the exercise is difficult, the timing is tight but we have the ambition to finish before the end of december.
president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on 14 october the council adopted conclusions on the position of the european union with a view to the cancún climate conference, at which the global framework for climate protection is to be discussed. on the basis of this text, the european council meeting in october next week, on 18 and 19 october, will establish the european union's position for the 16th conference of the parties to the united nations convention on climate change. this position of the european union covers all aspects of importance to this conference: the expected outcomes, the conditions for the continuation of the kyoto protocol beyond 2012, the progress to be made in the various areas set out in the bali roadmap mitigation, adaptation, forest technology aspects and financing. the council has endeavoured to present clear and communicated positions on all these aspects. it is now up to all actors in the european union to use these positions to send a clear and unambiguous message to our international partners. as the council has just indicated, the european union hopes that the cancún meeting will lead to the adoption of a balanced set of decisions contributing to the establishment of an international regime for climate protection after 2012. several bilateral meetings and contacts will take place before cancún and will be an opportunity to explain our positions to our partners. at the conference itself, these positions will be clarified if necessary during the coordination meetings which the european union will hold on a regular basis on the spot. of course, we are counting on all the institutions to help clarify our position by conveying the same message to all external contacts, if possible.
president of the council. - i must tell you and give you as clarification that it is true, progress will be difficult in cancun. three reasons for this relative pessimism. firstly, the economic crisis which obviously affects the european union but also many countries outside the european union, which in any case means that the goodwill and the investment claims in this area are rather downplayed; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has maintained the positions it took in copenhagen, and i think we must be careful in the way we engage today so as not to override the positions and the guidelines we may take in cancun in a month's time.
mr. minister, i would like to ask you if you are considering linking the climate change and pollution reduction targets to the millennium development goals, because, it is true, there are developing countries who feel that it is too expensive for them to move to a process of reducing emissions, but this can mean creating jobs and, by implication, a sustainable economy. so i ask you if you're going to make a link between the millennium development goals and climate change.
unfortunately, the drop-out rate in europe is 19 percent, and in countries like portugal, 40 percent. the economic crisis, budgetary and population decline have led to the closure of many schools in some countries, especially in rural areas. when we talk about education, we are talking about the future of europe, and i would ask you, mr minister, to set binding targets for reducing school drop-outs in the year of combating poverty at the council level, perhaps even at the european council level.
president of the council. - two questions, two answers. the first question is: of course there have been, and still are, a number of disparities in accounting standards. the harmonization of accounting standards is obviously under way because if we want to be honest with all the economies of the 27 member states in the future, we must be able to use the same methods of calculation, so this harmonization is under way and is continuing. as for the flexibility with regard to the 3% margin, you know, the flexibility, we are really getting to know it, we have known it since 2009, we just knew it in 2010, we will know it again in 2011 and in 2012 to allow our different states to return to this sound budgetary logic because if we wanted to apply rigorously, and only rigorously, this 3% margin, we would almost all, this year for example, outside this budgetary rigorousness plan, this is not the case. i think the european institutions have understood that, in the face of the crisis and especially in the face of the member states, time must be allowed before we can achieve this budgetary stability and balance by 2013. compared to the north-south imbalance. whether the imbalance is north-south or between member states which have rather capitalised on, for example, the aid provided by the european union to develop their economies, develop their productivity, develop employment and others which have done less, i think that the european union is indeed there to preserve this coherence, this cohesion. in particular, the funds available in the european budget for cohesion - the first budget line of the union - must be able to be effectively used to reduce these imbalances. you mention the imbalance between north and south, and i am not sure that this is the only imbalance that exists within the european union.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council would of course like to recall that the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaty and secondary legislation, and that it includes the right for citizens of the european union to live and work in another member state. as regards the temporary restrictions provided for in the accession treaties, it is for each member state that continues to apply restrictions to assess the impact on its labour market and decide whether to maintain the remaining restrictions or to relax them before the end of the transitional period: april 2011 for countries that acceded in 2004 and december 2013 for countries that acceded in 2007. the council also invited those member states which continued to apply restrictions under the transitional provisions laid down in the accession treaties to lift them during the third phase of the transitional period if it could not be established that their labour market was suffering or was likely to suffer from serious disturbances. since may 2009, when denmark granted free access to its labour market, the transitional provisions applied by the member states have not been changed and while the majority of member states grant free access to workers from member states that acceded after 1 may 2004, ten member states still apply restrictions. the council stressed that the economic and financial crisis should not be invoked as a single and general justification for maintaining the provisions in question and invited the member states to further develop strategies and appropriate tools to identify and analyse obstacles to the geographical and occupational mobility of workers and to contribute effectively to the elimination of existing obstacles, in accordance with the treaty.
i thank you for your reply, mr minister, and i would ask you to continue to ask the council of the european union to ask the member states to lift the barriers and the transitional provisions restricting the free movement of workers from the new member states, in particular romania and bulgaria. and i want to stress that providing equal opportunities in the european labour market for all workers in all member states means equally protecting workers in the countries of destination. that is why i ask you, mr minister, to ask the member states to remove the existing barriers.
in writing. i would like to welcome the progress made in the acta negotiation process. this agreement is essential in order to establish common international standards on the application of intellectual property law. however, i would point out that the measures to punish infringements of intellectual property must respect the principle of proportionality and balance between the seriousness of the acts committed and the penalties imposed. i am referring in particular to cases of infringement of intellectual property in digital media and the internet, where a clear distinction should be made in the treatment of large-scale piracy for commercial purposes and isolated and unsystematic cases of intellectual property fraud. in addition, regardless of the seriousness of the offences committed, the agreement should pay particular attention to the protection of freedom of expression, due process and confidentiality.
member of the commission. − mr president, when looking at eu-moldova relations, i believe it is uncontroversial that we have achieved a lot of progress in record time, but domestically the country still faces many challenges. the referendum of 5 september was meant to resolve the political deadlock by changing the rules for electing the president. it failed. that is regrettable. however, whether the referendum would comply with democratic standards was also an important question. crucially, its effective compliance has been confirmed by the international observers. this is an encouraging sign. the elections of 28 november are equally important for the consolidation of democracy in the country. we will continue sending firm messages in that respect to all stakeholders. thereafter, all political forces will have to work together, both to elect a president and to choose a government capable of taking the country through a critical reform path. at the same time, we will sustain our unwavering support to the structural reforms conducted by the moldovan government. let me highlight a few important aspects. the european union is not only by far the largest donor to moldova, but in march also succeeded in mobilising over forty donors to support moldova’s reforms. they pledged an impressive eur 1.9 billion for the years 2010-2013, including our own eur 550 million commitment. over the last months, we have provided timely responses to a number of the government's specific needs: providing high-level policy advice to ministers; supporting democratisation efforts in rule-of-law related areas; helping organise the electoral consultations; addressing emergency needs after last summer’s floods; and improving possibilities for moldovan wine exports. alongside the moldovan government, we have actively engaged with the population living in the transnistrian region via small-scale projects, mostly in the social area. next year, we will start implementing the comprehensive institution-building programme under the eastern partnership. that programme will help moldova prepare for, and implement, the association agreement that we are currently negotiating. the latest round of negotiations in chisinau on 13 and 14 october demonstrated yet again that these negotiations are progressing at a very good speed. our assistance has also taken the form of direct transfers to the moldovan budget. since the last quarter of 2009, eur 37 million has been disbursed as sectoral budget support, with an additional eur 15 million to come soon. out of this, about eur 8.5 million was directly allocated to help the poorest strata of the population. now that president buzek has signed the relevant legislative decision, we expect to disburse soon the eur 40 million of the first tranche of macro-financial assistance. in the same spirit, we will carry on our busy schedule of political contacts and technical exchanges. in a few days, i will meet with prime minister filat, in luxembourg. in november, the eu-moldova trade sub-committee will examine moldova’s response to the commission’s key recommendations in view of preparing negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade area. additionally, we have engaged with moldova in a dedicated dialogue on human rights and in an energy dialogue, and are negotiating an aviation services agreement. we have actively followed up on the visa dialogue launched in june. next monday, drawing on the outcome of the fact-finding missions conducted in september by independent experts, the foreign affairs council is expected to release conclusions that should address this issue.
on behalf of the epp group. the purpose of this debate is to discuss the reforms undertaken by the republic of moldova in the last year and the progress made on the path of european integration. for a year now, this country has been on the european union's agenda because it has fulfilled its commitments. among other things, i would like to mention: there is a plan with priority measures in the key areas of reform, there is a plan for judicial reform; both have begun to be put into practice. the human rights dialogue has been launched. in september, the parliament of the republic of moldova also ratified the statute of the international criminal court. the association treaty is being negotiated intensively, with very good results. it's only been a year, but whoever started it has a guarantee it'll continue. the republic of moldova is the most progressive state in the union's eastern neighbourhood. i therefore ask the council to evaluate this state individually on its merits. progress means political will, work and dedication, and these must be rewarded. we have rewarded the western balkans for their actions. let's do the same with the republic of moldova. in the visa dialogue, moldova has made great progress in all four blocs. i therefore ask the council to invite the commission at its next meeting on 25 october to draw up an action plan to enable citizens of the republic of moldova to travel without a visa. direct human-to-human contact is worth more than any statement. transnistria, the transnistrian region - a solution is crucial for the political and economic stability of the republic of moldova and the region. the union's role must be stronger at political level and we must be present through joint projects with visible changes for people. finally, the process of european integration has led to the construction of democracy and freedom at a pace unprecedented in european history. let's look at central and eastern europe, how it's changed in the last 20 years. and in the western balkans, there is peace, and reforms are on the way. let's make it the same in the republic of moldova.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the republic of moldova has a single option – between ‘transnistrialisation’ and ‘europeanisation’. that is to say between an oligarchic past of a soviet nature and a future of security, prosperity and social justice. moldova’s development has so far been negatively influenced by its internal political instability. the fundamental problem of the republic of moldova is not linked to the external challenges it faces, but to the internal division among political forces. that internal political instability has denied the ruling coalition the time to implement its pro-european options. moldova now faces a turning point. the outcome of this early election should aim to lead the country towards a future of european modernisation. therefore, we call on all political forces in moldova that are proposing a future of european modernisation for the country to avoid any unnecessary protagonism or confrontation, and to concentrate on developing a broad vision with the aim of directing the country towards achieving its european goals.
mr president, there is ample proof that moldova’s commitment to european values and standards is genuine and effective. moldova is actually the best example of implementing pro-european policies among our eastern neighbours. in actual fact, moldova’s euro-credentials make it fully compatible with western balkan states. the positive precedent set by moldova should be acknowledged and encouraged. the deterioration of democratic institutions in neighbouring ukraine increases the importance of moldova for the eu's policies on its eastern flank. in this context, it is vital that the general elections on 28 november confirm moldova’s continued drive towards european integration. it is indeed high time for the eu to send a positive signal to moldova and the moldovans. thousands of moldovan families are divided by a visa barrier. the eu-moldova visa dialogue presents us with a huge opportunity. this dialogue should enter an operational phase. let us hope that the foreign affairs council on 25 october will invite the commission to draw up an action plan for visa liberalisation. a pro-european, integrated moldova would have a beneficial effect on the eu’s eastern frontier, where weak governance and unsolved conflicts are a continuous threat to european stability.
as a member of the delegation to the eu-moldova parliamentary cooperation committee, i have been very happy to follow the positive developments in moldova and i can say that the republic of moldova's commitment to the european path has been very clearly demonstrated in the last year. i would mention the reforms in the economic, judicial and public administration sectors. at the same time, we must be realistic and recognise that moldova's transition process is not an easy one and that many reforms still need to be initiated. i am glad that the talks on visa liberalisation are progressing, but i think we need the commission to set out a clear path to achieve this and, why not, to a total visa abolition in the future. the republic of moldova will face a crucial test in the parliamentary elections on 28 november and i hope that the european path it has embarked on will be validated by the population and continue. the macro-financial and political support from the european institutions and some member states has been extremely important. and in view of the positive results of our policy, i ask the european institutions - the parliament, the council, the european commission - to continue their support for moldova, to give moldova confidence and encourage it to continue on the path of reform and closer integration with the european union, with a view to its eventual full membership.
i would also like to thank all those who made this debate possible. we have an obligation to look with great responsibility to the republic of moldova, especially now, on the eve of elections. the alliance for european integration government has demonstrated, through a particular effort, that it is ready to embark on a comprehensive process of political, economic and institutional reforms, thus becoming a leader in this area within the eastern partnership. this is after eight years of communist rule in which essential rights such as freedom of speech and the right to a fair trial were severely violated. the reform process in the republic of moldova should continue predominantly in the field of justice and home affairs. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states. it is also necessary to ensure safe and humane detention so that fundamental human rights are respected. the republic of moldova has been in a political crisis for more than a year and a half, failing to elect a president and validate the referendum. i believe the early elections on november 28th are a huge stake in her european path. democracy is once again being put to the test. i would like to state with all responsibility that a failure of democracy in the republic of moldova in the forthcoming elections will also be to a small extent a failure of the union's policy in that state. we need a partner in the eu's immediate neighbourhood who embraces the values we share. finally, i would like to emphasise that the language spoken by the citizens of the republic of moldova is today an official language of the european union. moreover, they have one reason to enjoy our support.
romanian imperialism, that's what the moldovan communists call the interest and interventions of the elected in romania regarding the situation in chisinau, whether it's about president basescu or the european deputies. in other words, the communists in chisinau would like bucharest to keep silent, and as for me, i must tell you that i do not think it is a justified expectation. on the contrary, we are obliged to say. first of all, because a large number of european citizens, romanians and bulgarians in particular, but also others, live in the republic of moldova, and i believe that, like any european citizen, anyone who is on moldovan territory must enjoy the rights that flow from his political status. secondly, we must be very careful in chisinau because for more than a year now a government coalition has been operating there under the banner of european integration. it's not just the name that this coalition bears. of course, if he had said alliance for russia, we wouldn't be so interested. they called themselves the alliance for european integration, but it's not just a name, it's a very brave action by this government. both mrs macovei and commissioner füle explained what this brave action means. i was in chisinau and tiraspol last week and i found that europeanization is also a stake in the election campaign that will begin for the elections in november. the citizens of moldova will in fact decide not only between the various political forces but also between continuing the european path or interrupting it. let's not get this wrong. i see that the head of the union delegation in chisinau is also beginning to be wrong. the communists don't want integration. the communists showed a year and a few months ago what they want. the april demonstrations were a very clear proof of the interest of the communists in chisinau. that is why i hope that citizens will understand the message and attitudes of the parties, but also that politicians will understand the will expressed at the polls.
mr president, moldova is the last piece of ‘latinity’ outside the eu. history has played a big role in that. however, through the neighbourhood policy and eastern partnership, moldova’s prospects of first getting closer, and then being admitted, to the eu after fulfilling the required conditions are improving. the current coalition, although facing an election soon, has accelerated the pace of reforms, to which the eu has responded properly. those in charge on both sides should be congratulated. both the pace of internal reform and the eu response should continue to get beyond the point of no return sooner, rather than later. moldova’s chances depend, of course, on the solution to the transnistrian conflict. in that respect, we are encouraged by the current discussions on this topic announced in potsdam at the german-russian summit and, supposedly, evoked at the recent trilateral summit in deauville, capitalising on the apparent willingness of russia to find a solution. let us all keep faith and work together to bring this last piece of latinity into the eu.
in writing. i welcome the progress made by the union in its relations with the republic of moldova over the past year. allow me to congratulate my fellow members who have initiated this resolution. romania has committed itself, since its accession, to act as the advocate of the republic of moldova within the eu. the number of romanian mps from various political groups who signed the resolution means, in my opinion, the concretisation of this initial commitment. the 90 million euro macro-financial assistance granted to moldova was and is the oxygen bubble that moldova and its citizens needed to make progress and, above all, to meet their commitments in the area of reforms, the rule of law and the fight against corruption. there are two major problems that the republic of moldova has to solve. the transnistria problem, where the input of the european chancellors must become more concrete and firm, and negotiations must be resumed. a second issue, which obviously depends on the democratic political forces in the republic of moldova, which we must encourage, is how the elections on 28 november will be conducted. we must guarantee the citizens inside but especially those outside the de facto access to the right to vote their central authorities. thank you, sir.
the development of an integrated maritime policy is an absolute necessity given the fragmented approach of the past, which has led to inefficiencies and conflicts in this area. the report by mrs meissner reiterates the european parliament's view that an integrated, coherent and common decision-making process should be created for the oceans, seas, coastal regions and maritime sectors. the integrated maritime policy facilitates a pan-sectoral approach to maritime governance by promoting the identification and use of synergies between the european union's policies in this area. the proposal for a regulation provides for a programme which will provide a stable framework for maintaining support for initiatives in this area and will lead to a more coherent use of funds for the seas and coastal areas. the only cost-effective and feasible financing solution in the current economic context was unfortunately the modest financial contribution from the union. i hope that this form of financing will nevertheless enable the objectives of the integrated maritime policy to be achieved in the short and medium term.
the importance of an integrated maritime policy is undeniable in a context where the european union is the world's leading maritime power and around 40% of the union's gross domestic product is produced around the seas and coastal areas. the implementation of these policy objectives must take particular account of the regional specificities of the seas around europe. each maritime region is unique and requires individual attention to sustainably balance its uses. at the same time, we need to ensure that this policy is adequately funded for the next programming period, thus generating a new approach that aims to promote the optimal development of all maritime activities in a sustainable way and covering all sea basins. so we'll get much more benefits with less impact on the environment.
shipping and shipbuilding make a significant contribution to the economic prosperity of the countries of the european union and provide important services to european and global industry and consumers. i congratulate mrs meissner on her report and stress the importance of a barrier-free maritime area, while at the same time calling on the commission and the member states to assess and ensure the conservation of small seaports, to extend the short sea transport network to minimise land transport distances, to support research and innovation in freight transport modes, handling and logistics solutions to reduce transport time and handling costs, and to support the development of port infrastructure and intermodality. underlining the geostrategic importance of the black sea, the european council should ask the european commission to develop a european union strategy for the black sea. unfortunately, little attention has been paid to the black sea, which is of geostrategic importance to the european union.
in writing. – in my capacity as rapporteur on eu strategy for the black sea, i noticed with regret that matters related to the black sea are almost ignored in the union’s integrated maritime policy (imp). though the black sea was included in the imp concept in 2007, concrete eu action on this dimension seems to lag behind. i strongly urge the european commission to redouble efforts to develop the black sea approach of this policy. imp is an important tool for addressing opportunities and challenges in eu sea basins in a coherent manner which is aimed at comprehensive development of the coastal zones. i am deeply convinced that the black sea, as a sea partially within the eu, and its littoral states have an acute need for proper application of this tool. the international dimension of the imp is a crucial aspect for successful implementation in the black sea region, which also encompasses seven non-eu countries. the european parliament is currently preparing a report on establishing an eu strategy for the black sea. i hope that the commission will follow this initiative and will regard the future strategy as an important basis for strengthened imp implementation in the black sea area.
madam president, the oral amendment is on amendment 1 to paragraph 3. it proposes the replacement of ‘road map’ with ‘action plan’ as this is the correct formulation. so this amendment will now read ‘calls on the council to invite the commission to quickly develop the action plan’ and so on.
in writing. - we all know that the instrument for financing development cooperation (dci) does not provide for an exception to the principle that it is not eligible for community financing; it therefore allows for a certain flexibility on a case-by-case basis and the authorising officer responsible may, where appropriate, decide to finance this expenditure in order to ensure the smooth running of programmes and projects. however, this flexibility is indispensable in the case of certain recurrent bottlenecks that arise when duty-free arrangements are non-existent or unusable. in these situations, the strict wording of the icd instruments can make action financed through external assistance extremely difficult. i therefore support the proposal to ask the commission to submit legislative proposals for alignment with the prc procedure and to ensure that this instrument complies with the new comitology requirements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr scholz's report because i believe that trade policy plays a decisive role in creating wealth and strengthening political relations. the cooperation instrument with industrialised countries and high-income territories fosters long-term political and economic links aimed at strengthening the eu's profile and influence on the international stage. i would like to congratulate mr scholz on the excellent cooperation he has had with the other political groups in negotiating the content of this report. i support the amendments tabled to that effect, which clarify the purposes for which this financing instrument can be used. in this respect, the wording has been simplified and certain limitations have been imposed on the framework of actions that can be financed. there are also certain amendments which aim to create a closer link between the issues dealt with in the programming and execution phase. finally, i would like to stress the importance of strengthening the role of parliament in terms of its involvement in programming, evaluation and reporting activities. parliament needs to be more involved in the elaboration and review of multiannual cooperation programmes and also be able to object to such proposals.
in writing. - in exercising its right of scrutiny in the comitology procedure, parliament has identified a number of problems and raised a number of objections. they generally concern the way in which the commission has implemented the instrument and the interpretation which it has given to some of its fundamental provisions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. they solve the problem of the commission's proposal to introduce an identical amendment to both regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 (icd) and regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 (ieddo), which fall within the competence of two different committees of the european parliament, deve for icd and afet committee (droi) for ieddo, by splitting the proposal into two different legislative proposals, which we are going to approve today.
in writing. − i agree with the proposed measures which can be integrated at an earlier stage in the multiannual financial framework, as the problem of banana trade still persists.
in writing. - i voted for this report because european consumers have the right to know where the products they buy come from, that is to say, to enjoy the same rights as citizens and consumers in other large countries. this regulation ensures that eu consumers will finally enjoy the same rights as millions of other consumers around the world, even if only for a limited number of product categories. in the face of conflicting interests, it is our duty to protect our consumers, regardless of the interests of the large distribution groups or individual lobby groups.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, although national standardisation bodies are the backbone of the european standardisation system, there are significant differences between them in terms of resources, technical expertise and stakeholder involvement. these inequalities cause a considerable imbalance in their participation in the european standardisation system. this report makes a number of proposals to improve the system within its current limits, building on its strengths.
in writing. − i believe that a strategic approach to european standardisation needs to be developed and the current system revised if it is to maintain its success and meet the needs of the next decade, allowing europe to maintain a leading role in the global standardisation system.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i welcome the progress that the union has made in the last year in its relations with the republic of moldova. romania has committed itself, since its accession, to act as the advocate of the republic of moldova within the eu. the number of romanian mps from various political groups who signed the resolution means, in my opinion, the concretisation of this initial commitment. the 90 million euro macro-financial assistance granted to moldova was and is the oxygen bubble that moldova and its citizens needed to make progress and, above all, to meet their commitments in the field of reforms, the rule of law and the fight against corruption.
in writing. − the resolution on reforms and developments in the republic of moldova is a timely encouragement to the political class and the people of the trans-prussian region as the elections on 28 november approach. the european parliament encourages democratic forces and ethnic and cultural communities to avoid unnecessary confrontations and to cooperate for a european future in this state with an economy seriously affected by the crisis and facing major political and democratic reform risks. the eu has a duty to help ensure the fair conduct of the parliamentary elections and to act more firmly so that the separatist authorities in tiraspol cannot prevent moldovan citizens in the transnistrian region from voting. the transnistrian issue is also very important for the stability of the republic of moldova and the entire region, and the eu has a major role to play in implementing a negotiated and sustainable solution. the strengthening of macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova, the encouragement of structural reforms, the fight against corruption and the stimulation of the investment environment, as well as the entry as soon as possible into the operational phase of the dialogue on visa liberalisation for moldovan citizens - are essential elements of european support for a state whose place is in the european union.
in writing. − over the last year, the republic of moldova has shown real political will in its process of rapprochement with the european union. however, the country's modernisation efforts must continue and the european union must play an active role in supporting this dynamic. in this context, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that the european parliament and the european union in general send a message of confidence to the republic of moldova in the context of the upcoming parliamentary elections.
in writing. − with one third of eu citizens living in coastal regions, and this trend increasing, i believe that the climate challenge must be a major concern in european maritime policy. prevention and response to natural disasters also need to be matched by a concern to protect the seas and adjacent areas from potential industrial accidents, such as the recent oil spill in the gulf of mexico. i therefore believe that we need to approach the exploitation of the potential of the seas from an ecologically and economically sustainable perspective.
in writing. − with seven outermost regions in the atlantic and indian oceans, and the overseas territories, the european union has the world's largest maritime area. in addition, the eu has another strong point - its strong maritime tradition, which requires the development of a 'blue growth' strategy, which must be implemented in close correlation with the eu 2020 strategy. such an economic strategy can further develop the potential of the various maritime sectors, and local and regional authorities, coastal communities can and must play an important role in this. and so on. like other european policies, the integrated maritime policy can contribute to an important objective of a competitive, social and sustainable union with a high level of employment, and the maritime sector can be even more attractive for young people or other jobseekers. europe must also prepare response measures in the event of disasters such as the one in the gulf of mexico and propose a harmonised european action plan for preventing emergencies and combating disasters caused by drilling rigs at international level, especially in cases of cross-border contamination.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the european union has strengthened its economic and trade relations with latin america, becoming its second most important trading partner and the main trading partner for mercosur and chile. the objective of a stronger integration of the european and latin american economic spheres is to create a mutually advantageous situation. closer cooperation is needed between the eu and latin american countries in order to jointly push for the swift conclusion of a fair, ambitious and comprehensive wto agreement in the doha round, in line with the commitments made in the madrid declaration.
in writing. − despite economic and social progress in recent years, most spectacularly in brazil, 1 in 3 latin americans still lives in poverty. this scourge is most acute among latin american children and adolescents, more than half of whom are deprived of adequate material resources, which risks affecting their educational and professional careers, with long-term consequences for the societies in which they live. as eu trade policies have an important role to play in meeting the millennium development goals, i believe we need to put more emphasis on supporting central and south american countries in fighting poverty, increasing purchasing power and sustainable development.
in writing. − the european union is first and foremost a champion of human rights. that is why i believe that we must pay close attention to human rights in colombia before we liberalize trade with that country. on the other hand, when it comes to food imports from latin america, we have to make sure that these countries meet the same standards of quality and animal protection as our own producers.
as the colleagues who have spoken so far have said, we are facing a very embarrassing situation, because 20,000 residents of hatcliffe extension are threatened with eviction. they are, as is well known, the most vulnerable group in zimbabwe, a country which, apart from the extremely difficult economic situation, is experiencing significant political difficulties. since its creation in february 2009, the zimbabwean union government has done little to improve the situation of people, and in particular of those evacuated in 2005. i think our response or reaction to this situation is very clear: the government of zimbabwe must act in accordance with its international obligations. this means ending and preventing forced evictions. on the other hand, of course we all want democracy to be restored in zimbabwe. what we have right now, at this moment, is far from that.
zimbabwe, as noted here, is one of the countries where hunger is reaching catastrophic proportions, according to a report by the international food policy research institute released last week. the proportion of the population that is undernourished, the underweight of children, and the infant mortality rate are the three indicators that dramatically illustrate the chronic situation of malnutrition that affects millions of people. at the same time, hundreds of thousands of zimbabwe's poorest people were displaced from their homes in a barbaric displacement operation whose brutal name translates as "take out the garbage!" these people have not only lost their homes but their jobs, so that the unemployment rate is now 90 percent of the country's population. this is happening as dictator mugabe declares the people very, very happy, as cynically put by the man who will go down in history as the architect of the world's most cruel and enduring dictatorship. i believe it is imperative that we call on the zimbabwean regime to immediately end the forced evictions, to end the serious human rights violations and the persecution of civil society activists and to halt the alarmingly escalating violence before it is too late.
mr president, the current situation in zimbabwe is appalling and unacceptable. nearly 700 people were victims of the 2005 operation murambatsvina forced evictions. now 20 000 citizens face forced evictions from the hatcliffe extension near harare. the government has imposed unaffordable lease renewal fees on the people who were evicted, and has failed to consult with citizens or to inform them of the upcoming regulations. operation garikai intended to assist those who were affected by the 2005 evictions is merely a continuation of the same human rights abuses. i join in insisting that zimbabwe halt these evictions of citizens in the harare region. i urge the government of zimbabwe to immediately amend operation garikai to comply with all obligations under international and human rights law. i ask the commission to raise this issue as a matter of urgency with the government of zimbabwe.
author. − mr president, mr rainsy, an opposition leader, has been sentenced in absentia to 12 years in prison. his trial did not comply with international standards for a fair and impartial judiciary, and his conviction was politically motivated. similar convictions of members of the opposition party are fairly common, and show that there is no impartial judiciary in cambodia. these court decisions hinder basic human rights, including the freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial. i strongly oppose the conviction of sam rainsy and those like him who exercise their freedom of expression, and call on the cambodian government to stop its current path of tyranny. at international level, we must remind cambodia to strive towards democracy and not use the selective enforcement of laws against individual rights. in particular, i call on the commission to remind cambodia not to use new ngo regulations to restrict the opposition and civil society.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a joint resolution on the situation in cambodia. after being excluded from the national assembly and having his parliamentary immunity revoked three times so far, after numerous assassination attempts and dozens of his supporters killed, sam rainsy is now being sentenced in absentia for his politically charged protests. the ultimate goal of the september sentence is to prevent the opposition leader from running for re-election in two years, which will ultimately jeopardize cambodia's chances of democratization. the demands made to the cambodian government in this resolution to put an end to the political persecution are accompanied by a request to the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to exert the necessary pressure on the authorities to resume the political and institutional reforms necessary to establish a genuine democracy.
it is unfortunate that cambodian courts still use arrest as a tool to intimidate political opponents and dissidents. journalists, human rights activists, and other critical voices promoting freedom of expression are most often targeted. it is clear that the charges against sam rainsy are more political than criminal. he was sentenced to 12 years in prison after a symbolic gesture of protest against the way the border with vietnam was drawn. the real reason for the conviction, however, appears to be to remove the opposition from the electoral race for the 2013 parliamentary elections. i would therefore like to call on the cambodian government to honour its commitments to strengthen the democratic state. mr. sam rainsy, as the main opposition leader, must be allowed to resume his duties in the cambodian parliament as soon as possible. this would stop the evolution towards a one-party system, which is dangerous for the respect of human rights.
it's about, in the case of sam rainsy, as it was said, two convictions. in addition to the oldest, two-year-old, there's a 10-year-old for a misdemeanor count of false reporting and falsification of public records. it is obvious, as my colleagues have said, that this is an attempt to block his participation in the upcoming elections. there is a procedural issue in this whole story, namely that sam rainsy was convicted in absentia in proceedings that took place behind closed doors and which, as has been reported, were marked by numerous irregularities. it's not an isolated case, by the way. there are many more voices critical of the cambodian government who have suffered such treatment with prosecutions and, as has been said, i believe that under the cooperation agreement with the european union, the cambodian authorities must make clear commitments on human rights.
the republics of the north caucasus are almost daily the scene of acts of violence or terrorism. the attack this week on the chechen parliament shows that the islamic insurgency is threatening the stability of the entire region. 15 years after the outbreak of the war in chechnya, there are still 80,000 displaced people. the situation of human rights activists is also worrying with numerous cases of abductions and arbitrary sentences reported. mr. oleg orlov's case is part of a series of lawsuits initiated without a solid legal basis. he faces three years in prison after accusing the president of chechnya of involvement in the 2009 murder of natalia estemirova. i would like to point out that the investigation that began after her death has not made any progress so far. for these reasons, i believe that the federal authorities must take additional steps to ensure that fair investigations are conducted, including those of memorial's members.
i would also like to express my solidarity with oleg orlov and the memorial human rights centre he runs, who last year won the european parliament's sakharov prize for freedom of thought. the conviction for slandering the chechen president and the trial of oleg orlov, who is facing years in prison, are a shocking addition to a dark series of persecutions against human rights activists, the most painful of which is the kidnapping and murder of natalia estemirova, the chechen coordinator of memorial. i wish to protest against the brutal and repeated violations of human rights, justified by the need to combat terrorism, against the impunity of those responsible for serious crimes and abuses, and against the toleration by the russian authorities of this situation which affects the credibility of their pro-democracy commitment.
member of the commission – mr president, i would like to thank you for raising the human rights situation in the north caucasus. while the anti-terrorist operation in chechnya was officially declared over last year, violence and the climate of impunity continue there, but even more so in neighbouring dagestan and also in ingushetia. the armed attack that took place on tuesday of this week on the parliament in grozny was the latest reminder that the situation remains volatile and dangerous. the high representative for foreign and security policy/vice-president ashton has deplored this attack and has stated that no circumstances can justify the use of terrorist violence and suicide attacks. i would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims. in this case, the victims were a civilian and two policemen carrying out their duties. as terror attacks continue in the northern caucasus so too do regular attacks on human rights defenders and journalists, and the perpetrators of such attacks are rarely brought to justice. we pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who continue their work in such an environment. many activists, lawyers and independent journalists across the russian federation are facing violence, harassment and intimidation. the libel cases against oleg orlov, the head of the memorial human rights centre and the chairwoman of the moscow helsinki group, lyudmilla alekseeva, should be seen in this context of intimidation. mr orlov’s statements, challenged by president kadyrov, concerned the fact that the killer of memorial activist natalya estimirova, although identified, has not been brought to justice. the european commission is following mr orlov’s ongoing second trial very closely. the eu calls on russia to uphold the commitments it has entered into as a member of the united nations, the osce and the council of europe. president medvedev has spoken out against what he has termed the legal nihilism prevailing in russia. the eu stands ready to support russia’s reform of its judicial system. concrete activities have been prepared in close cooperation with the president’s administration and the council of europe. the eu highly values the opportunity it has to discuss its concerns on human rights with the russian authorities. we welcome the open attitude president medvedev has taken in discussions with the eu concerning these issues. the regular eu-russia human rights consultations at expert level offer an opportunity to broaden the scope of these discussions.
in writing. – i wish to convey my deepest sympathy and concern for the increasing number of murdered or disappeared citizens of the caucasus region, particularly natalia estemirova. the increase in violence and disappearances of human rights activists and political opponents in the north caucasus region since 2009 is worrying. these conflicts and human rights violations destabilise the region and hinder peace and prosperity. i urge the russian authorities to heighten protection for human rights defenders, including those working for memorial. the government should strive to convict those who carry out abductions and murders, rather than silencing those, like oleg orlov, who bring these issues to light. i condemn the actions taken by the authorities in investigating human rights organisations, as well as criminal charges currently being brought against oleg orlov for speaking out. i call on the commission to emphasise these issues in its dialogue with russia.
mr president, not so long ago this parliament adopted a resolution which spoke about the new possibilities for developing transatlantic relations after the election of president obama in the united states. the forthcoming european union-united states summit will take place in a slightly different context. it does not mean, however, that the opportunities are not there. it is simply that the context is a little bit more complicated. i think, therefore, that we will face certain challenges in the preparation of this summit. i hope we can persuade our american allies to continue their multilateral approach in international relations and to show this multilateralism in a practical approach in their relations with the european union. we have to insist on the development of the civilian dimension of the peace enforcement and peace-keeping missions, as well as of the crisis management and post-crisis rehabilitation operation. it is also important to try and coordinate our policies on development aid in order to be more effective in this endeavour. on non-proliferation, we should not only keep our capacity to work together but also act in a smart way. part of this process is the ratification of the new start treaty, which is still pending in the united states congress. we hope that the new realities of congress will not hamper the possibilities for voting for this treaty. the us has announced and has already started the reworking of relations with russia. i think this reworking is very important to us and it is also important, if we look forward, for a trilateral dialogue: russia, the united states and the european union on the most important global topics. above all, i hope that during this summit we can consolidate the european partnership instinct of the united states. we need a functional mechanism for permanent communication, consultation and coordination with our american allies.
i believe that one of the points of the transatlantic dialogue at the forthcoming eu-us bilateral summit should be the abolition of visas for the four eu member states whose citizens are still subject to this travel restriction - romania, bulgaria, poland and cyprus. i regret the lack of flexibility on the part of the united states in the face of the substantial progress made by these countries, especially since their accession to the european union. i believe that this cramming of technical details for admission to the visa waiver programme must be countered more insistently and effectively by the representatives of the european union. the european union as a whole has a duty to show more active and more pronounced solidarity with all the citizens of the member states. i would also like to stress the need for development cooperation and humanitarian aid at a time when the relations between the us and the european union are very important in the current economic and geostrategic context.
the eu-us data protection agreement is welcomed and should be supported in order to strengthen cooperation in criminal matters and the fight against terrorism. as the european parliament has said on many occasions, the lack of a us data protection law compatible with that of the eu raises serious questions about the real protection europeans will enjoy in the united states. in this context, i would like to ask the commission and the council how the rights of europeans to judicial and administrative redress, the proportionality of the processing and access to data by the various us authorities and agencies and, last but not least, the oversight of the whole process by an independent authority will be guaranteed in practice.
in writing. the eu and the us form the most important trading partnership and account for half of the world economy. on the other hand, the two partners need to cooperate more closely to promote growth and employment in their economies, especially as the economic crisis has destroyed 30 million jobs worldwide in recent years. in this respect, the transatlantic economic council remains the most appropriate mechanism for achieving the objective of a unified transatlantic market by 2015. i believe that the priority issue of visa arrangements for all member states should be discussed at the lisbon summit. as freedom of movement is a highly valued right in the eu, the commission needs to continue the political and technical dialogue on progress made and future lines of action. i would mention that the romanian government recently approved the legislative framework for the creation of a national visa information system, which allows the exchange of data with other member states on visa applications. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in an age of mobility, we cannot benefit from security without effective data exchange, and it is our duty to protect our citizens against terrorist attacks and organised crime. but there's a balance to be struck, a balance between security and privacy. i welcome the fact that the european parliament's resolution emphasises that pnr data cannot be used for profiling purposes. the partnership between the usa, canada and australia on the one hand and the european union on the other can, in my view, be the optimal solution to combat terrorism and organised crime. i believe that the two sides must first find a common understanding of how to achieve this objective. we must bear in mind that the european mindset places a high value on respect for privacy. the eu is not allowed to give its consent until all the details related to the security of the data transferred between the parties involved are clarified.
the proposed strategy is a step forward in the way future agreements in this area are approached. it is important that they balance the protection of privacy and fundamental rights with the need to combat terrorism. the strategy, if implemented as presented, will succeed in providing strong and enforceable guarantees for the respect of the rights of european citizens enjoyed within the european union. as commissioner malmström has assured us, profiling by automated data processing will not be possible. we hope so, because that was one of our concerns, as was the retention period. although we are not talking about personal data, i think that ultimately it is about the right of citizens to privacy. therefore, administrative and legal remedies should also be provided for citizens affected by the misuse of records. transfers of pnr data to third countries should be made on a case-by-case basis and only with the explicit consent of the european union.
i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gauzès. without the competence and tenacity of mr barón crespo and those who worked with him, without the involvement of the commission and the council, we would not have this draft for debate today. i shall vote for this report because of the benefits it brings by introducing transparency into the work of these funds, transparency as regards costs, as regards investment policy, transparency as regards the risks they take. without transparency we cannot talk, we know all too well, about the responsibility of the managers of these funds. by introducing supervision and monitoring of these funds, we are also ensuring that one of the gaps that still exists in the european financial supervisory architecture is filled in this way and thus we are directly responding to the legitimate demands of european citizens who have been hit very hard by this financial crisis that has been unleashed in the world.
i should like to begin by thanking mr barnier and mr gauzès for the excellent results achieved in the last negotiations. one of the benefits of adopting this directive will be the monitoring of systemic risk. this will be done in particular in the context of the cooperation of national authorities with the european systemic risk board. another important collaboration is that of national bodies with the european securities and markets authority. the latter will be able to make recommendations and participate in the supervision of national systems. i also think it is important to include additional provisions on the transparency of the operations carried out by fund managers. i also welcome the introduction of a more flexible regulatory regime for sme managers to stimulate access to alternative investment sources.
in writing. investment fund managers is a report which has generated a great deal of debate, both between different groups in the ep and between the ep and the council. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. under the umbrella of generous principles, but unfortunately assumed by colleagues who do not understand financial management and macroeconomics, there are regulations that not only have nothing to do with preventing a new crisis, but do nothing but increase unjustifiably and aberrantly the costs of operating an alternative investment fund, costs that will be reflected in lower capital, lower returns and fewer investments. i must admit, i am absolutely surprised to find such a mindset of the bully in the eu, a mindset that is reminiscent of the 1950s when institutions were being destroyed in eastern europe behind grand slogans.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has shown us that we need tougher regulation of economic actors. they took too much risk, which led to the disruption of the global financial system. alternative investment fund managers represent, according to the european central bank's analysis, some eur 700 billion in assets in the european union, playing an important role in financing the latter's economy. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal on their authorisation and supervision and the introduction of a european passport in this field. the creation of a european internal market for alternative fund managers will limit systemic risks and better protect investors, in the spirit of the new european economic surveillance structure. the commission will also have to present an assessment of the results of this harmonisation in due time to ensure that it has not led to a distortion of the market.
the universal declaration of human rights, in its article 27, stresses that everyone has the right to freely participate in the cultural life of the community, to appreciate works of art, and to benefit from scientific progress. european research must find solutions to the great challenges facing society: ageing populations, climate change, energy supply and energy efficiency, raw material shortages, the sustainability of economic and social development. in order for the union to develop its innovation capacity, which is essential for its competitiveness, we must also develop a link between innovation policy and the union's industrial policy. only by developing production capacities and, therefore, jobs in the union will we be able to maintain and develop the union's innovation capacity in the long term. at the same time, the impact of innovation on society depends on the degree of dissemination of scientific achievements. i believe that for the innovation union, we need a new partnership that facilitates education and citizen access to the results of scientific progress.
i would like to welcome the commission's proposal to launch the first european innovation partnership. in order to be able to engage all member states in innovation, the union should be more actively involved in directing the flow of investment needed to tackle imbalances in infrastructure and management resources between member states. i think that special attention should be paid to regional development projects. innovation partnerships should also focus on this objective. attention should be paid to ensuring a high degree of coherence between the european structural funds, public financing from the member states and private contributions.
a sustainable, smart and inclusive economy, in order to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020, is achieved by encouraging the research and innovation sector. initiatives in this regard should be taken at all levels, including in cross-border cooperation with other regions of the union. i want to stress the importance of a bottom-up approach to innovation. innovative solutions by educational institutions or businesses are difficult to achieve due to lack of information or financial constraints. regional authorities can make use of these 'sleeping innovators', as they have been called, and support them through assistance and partnership programmes, with the help of cohesion policy. partnerships can aim to improve innovation performance, strengthen the relationship between initiator and beneficiary, and promote good practice in this area. during the regi commission's visit to romania last week, we were presented with research and innovation projects of educational institutions in the western region, which i represent. the success of these initiatives lies in the establishment of viable partnerships.
since its inception, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe has made it its primary task to warn of and prevent possible conflicts. in its institutional framework, the high commissioner for national minorities and his office have special tasks, which seek to avoid the emergence of tensions in the relations between the majority and the minority. it's what the english call early warning diplomacy. although the eu institutions are the main guarantors of the settlement of disputes within the european union, the osce may play an important role where appropriate. the slovak language law is an example of this, as the high commissioner for minorities tried to mediate between the parties. unfortunately, given the results, this transmission is not considered successful. state law continues to be a source of tension due to the discriminatory nature of the law and its contradiction with a number of international agreements. this was also clearly stated by the european commission for democracy and justice, the so-called venice commission. perhaps we would be closer to a solution to this problem today if the crucial institution of the osce had been able to anticipate the conflict and had worked more effectively to resolve the tension.
in writing. the discussion of the rouček report is welcome in the run-up to the astana summit in december, to which our hopes for strengthening the osce are linked. the eu must take a clear stance towards an organisation that can play an important role for regional security and the promotion of democratic values and human rights. in this context, two things seem essential to me. first, it is about strengthening the human dimension of the osce. human rights and democracy are fundamental in the post-lisbon context, and the creation of the european external action service offers the opportunity to build a comprehensive security concept. secondly, i would like to stress that the corfu process must pay greater attention to the resolution of frozen conflicts, an area in which the osce can bring real added value compared to other regional organisations of the same type. i would like to draw attention to paragraph 8 of the rouček report, on which there was a broad consensus in the afet committee. the need for a lasting solution to the conflict in transnistria, respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the republic of moldova, must be reiterated. for this, we need a swift and unconditional resumption of negotiations in the 5+2 format.
first of all, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr díaz de mera, on his report. i'm sure that tomorrow it will probably be voted unanimously by the votes. i would like to refer to the commission's intention to uphold the principle of reciprocity in the european union's relations with third countries. taiwan will benefit from visa-free travel throughout the european union and lift the visa requirement for romania, bulgaria and cyprus. that's a good thing. on the other hand, the united states, which enjoys full visa-free travel within the european union, refuses to grant reciprocity to romania, bulgaria, poland and cyprus and, moreover, has also introduced an entry fee for all union citizens - in effect, a masked visa. on the basis of the principle of reciprocity and solidarity between member states, the commission should move from a passive position of establishing a factual situation to an active role in this process of establishing full reciprocity of the visa waiver for all member states. as long as the negotiation of visa treaties is the exclusive competence of the union, and not of the member states, the commission must take all measures to resolve these situations.
the danube summit, held in bucharest on 8 november, brought together the 14 delegations of the danube strategy countries, including the republic of moldova, and provided an opportunity for moldova to move closer to the european union. the meeting was timely, given that the strategy's constituent documents will be approved by the end of the year and the strategy will be implemented in 2011. the main achievement was the commitment of the european commission, represented by president barroso, to support a concrete plan with a funding of €95 billion. in addition, it will be possible to attract additional resources from the eib or the ebrd. i recall that, as the co-initiator of the idea of a european strategy for the danube region in 2008, romania has consistently supported the implementation of this initiative. its early implementation will contribute to the socioeconomic revitalization of the counties in the south of romania, bordering the danube.
these days have brought to the fore extremely important elements of the innovation union and i believe that it is time to support measures that make possible, at european level, the action that the commission's initiative has described. developing partnerships is essential. however, we must not forget that for the next programming period, it is time to start debating at regional level, so that partnerships at local, regional, but also national or transnational level can be initiated. in the same vein, we can say that the broad debate on how to develop in the next period must be on the agenda of each region. i consider it crucial that all the relevant actors engage in dialogue to identify the added value of each region and the types of innovative actions to exploit it, and i call on local and regional authorities to get involved in creating partnerships with a view to programming that is as realistic as possible and as close to the needs and aspirations of the regions.
the union's population is ageing and the share of the active population in the total population is declining. due to the economic crisis, unemployment has risen to 10%. in this context, the union and the member states should take measures to ensure the sustainability of pension systems. reform of pension systems must provide solutions to guarantee pensioners a minimum income for a decent living. despite the increase in life expectancy, raising the mandatory retirement age is not a solution. older people, who can and want to remain active in the labour market, can continue to contribute to the development of society, but they are not obliged to do so. at the same time, the economic crisis and the relocation of european industry to third countries have reduced the number of jobs and people with the ability to work, unable to find stable employment, are having difficulty meeting the minimum contribution period to public pension schemes. i draw attention to the fact that raising the retirement age will lead to increased unemployment among young people.
a current problem is that of young and old people who are having difficulty finding work. achieving intergenerational equity will thus be one of the main social challenges of european and national policy in the coming years. i believe that promoting the concept of flexicurity and the eu 2010 strategy target of 75% employment is a significant step in this direction. i believe that both the european commission and the council should introduce the generation census as an information tool. it is also necessary to increase eurostat's sustainable development indicators in all member states. finally, i would like to congratulate mr mann on having identified some very attractive solutions in his report. these include the european youth guarantee and the european 50+ package.
in the years ahead, alongside the effects of the crisis, many other major challenges will have to be addressed, some of the most important of which are demographic change and the subsequent depopulation of some regions. member states will have a crucial role to play in ensuring that citizens are least affected, and strong support is needed from them, in line with identified needs, in particular by using appropriate community funding instruments such as the structural funds. in order to meet the challenges ahead, i believe that special attention must be paid to young people in particular, by involving them in social life. we need to invest in young people, give them access to a proper education and then give them the opportunity to get a proper job or encourage them to follow the path of entrepreneurship. in this way, we will ensure the social inclusion of young people and, in my view, tackle one of the main causes of low birth rates and socioeconomic disparities between generations.
in writing. i would like to express my support for the idea of the european pact 50 plus, which would complement the objectives of strategy 2020 in order to encourage the presence of older workers in the labour market. over the next decade, the workforce is expected to fall by 3 million, with the eu having one of the lowest birth rates in the world and the employment rate of people over 55 below the 50% target set by the lisbon strategy. in a context where the age pyramid is increasingly dominated by the older generation, i believe that concrete measures are needed to ensure a balance between the necessary social solidarity and the inefficiency of social security systems in the face of new economic and demographic challenges. i think we need the experience of older workers, which is under-exploited now because of discriminatory biases that need to be fought more effectively. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the fact that older women are still victims of multiple discrimination, gender and age. increased attention is needed to the situation of older and single women, who represent an increasingly significant proportion of the population, also due to the longer life expectancy.
in writing. in a europe affected by demographic change, maintaining a balance between respect for rights and social assistance, i.e. the principle of 'a society for all', is a real challenge. i believe that the use of skills by people at the end of their careers is beneficial for society as a whole, and that public authorities, private companies or ngos that develop innovative programmes to involve older people in various activities should be encouraged. the main tools for achieving solidarity between generations remain social dialogue and debate with the affected groups. to this end, programmes can be created in education systems to bring such issues to the attention of young people and to facilitate dialogue with older people. on the other hand, it is beneficial to promote age-blended work teams and to encourage support for companies that implement such initiatives, because generational diversity enhances competitiveness and allows for more harmonious economic growth. the social economy and financial support from the european social fund are ways of creating and developing specific programmes aimed at active ageing and fostering solidarity between generations.
in writing. demography is a key challenge for the european states and regions in the context of the declining and ageing population faced by most member states. demographic risks are a priority of social policies at european level. in the context of continued ageing, low birth rates and demographic disparities, these policies need to identify concrete measures to counter the effects. over the past two decades, the rural population has declined considerably in convergence regions, especially among young people. young people have an important role to play in reducing disparities between urban and rural areas, with the bridging of demographic gaps being an important objective of cohesion policy. we need to put the benefits of rural areas into practice, from investor support to broadband. according to the european statistical institute, the average working age will increase by 7 percent by 2060. member states must have a clear, coherent policy to create solidarity between generations and to involve the population in the labour market at an older age than now.
in writing. i would like to welcome the report by mr thomas mann. the demographic problems facing the european union are becoming increasingly visible and affect rural areas in particular. according to statistics, only 7% of european farmers are under 35 years old, and at the same time, 4.5 million farmers will retire in the next 10 years. we risk seeing a decline in the rural labour force, and these effects will have negative consequences for agricultural productivity in the future. new tools are needed to counter rural demographic problems. one of the key issues is access to education for vocational training of young people in rural areas and their attraction to agriculture. another important aspect would be the implementation of early retirement measures for farmers by all member states, as well as the implementation of measures for the establishment of young farmers. the application of the two measures would lead to a substantial improvement in the management of agricultural holdings through the renewal of the generation of farm managers. last but not least, supporting entrepreneurs in accessing funds for agricultural projects is another key aspect to be taken into account in order to motivate young people in particular to get involved in agriculture.
in writing. europe is ageing faster than other continents and it is worrying that the ratio of the population over 65 to the working age population (aged 15-64) is set to double by 2060 (from 25.4% to 53.5%). in romania, the dynamics of this ratio is worrying, with it set to increase from 21.3% in 2008 to 65.3% in 2060. in view of the scale and speed of population ageing, member states should take into account in their employment policies the gender dimension, new forms of work organisation in enterprises, means of facilitating the transition to retirement through flexible arrangements, improvement of working conditions and promotion of non-discriminatory practices in recruitment and vocational training. i also call on the member states: to promote a culture of ageing management in enterprises and to adapt to its various aspects, in particular by allowing for gradual retirement, taking into account the difficulty of the job, working conditions, health and safety; to continue to maintain early retirement for certain categories of workers, depending on working conditions, and in special situations such as redundancy or restructuring.
in writing. research and innovation are two of the cornerstones of the europe 2020 strategy for improving competitiveness, sustainable growth and job creation. in this context, the implementation of the seventh framework programme for research needs to be improved, in particular by speeding up and simplifying administrative procedures, reducing waiting times and streamlining the management of applications. however, i would like to stress that, as far as the new member states are concerned, the dysfunctions of the framework programme go beyond the strictly administrative and management sphere. the main problem in these countries is related to the lack of research infrastructure, which leads to the structural impossibility of accessing the funds allocated through this programme. the commission should therefore also include in the future simplification proposal certain concrete measures to develop infrastructure for development in the new member states, with a view to ensuring equal opportunities in accessing research programmes.
first of all, i would like to thank mr victor caldeira for this clear and relevant report on the commission's work and on the implementation of the 2009 budget. secondly, i want to make clear from the outset something that is very important to us: every five years we are elected, sent to the european parliament by european citizens, who pay taxes and who, in the end, make up this budget. from their point of view, because we periodically go home and meet with them, the budget execution for 2009 cannot be a good one. i'll give you just two reasons. firstly, because the national management declarations are not backed by the political factor, they have neither the signature of the minister of finance nor the signature of the prime minister. therefore, we do not know who is responsible for these national management statements and how clear and accurate they are. it basically opens the door to a false and, if not false, incomplete report. secondly, for errors made in the management of european funds, it is the national state itself that has to pay the money back to the commission. in other words, european citizens pay money to the european budget, but they also, as the losers, pay the damage to the national budget. so twice as much money is paid by eu citizens for mistakes, errors or even fraud in the management of eu funds. thirdly, i would like to welcome the commission, welcome the european court of auditors and support, in turn, its better linking up with the national audit institutions in each member state. i think if we want more money in the budget, we have to spend the money we have better first and, to spend the money we have better, we have to know first where the problems are and how we can solve them.
i recall that in 2009, when the european union's economic recovery plan was first discussed, the commission committed to allocating one billion euros to energy efficiency in housing. unfortunately, this was not timely and the 'smart cities' initiative only had a small amount allocated, and subsequently, if there were any unused funds, the commission would allocate this money to the 'smart cities' initiative, which is what is happening with this regulation. i have asked, through an amendment, that the level of management expenditure and the costs associated with the creation and implementation of the instrument should not exceed 5% of the value of each use, so that the bulk of the sum does not go to financial intermediaries but goes to investments for projects related to energy efficiency in housing and the use of renewable energy. we also called for more transparency, the use of the www.buildup.eu website and we also called for the model applied to be made available free of charge to all interested parties whenever this tool is used, so that we can benefit from best practices. i congratulate mrs van brempt on her report and believe that energy efficiency should be at the top of the energy strategy of the european union.
the 'energy 2020' strategy, launched yesterday by the european commission, is an important step towards a secure and competitive energy market in europe. it offers solutions to important problems such as diversifying supply routes and sources, reducing energy consumption or coordinating with third countries. there are, however, visible shortcomings in terms of funding. the european energy recovery programme has as its main objective to facilitate the financing of investments in this area. effective implementation requires that all environmental legislation is complied with and that project promoters meet their funding commitments. i believe that active cooperation between national, regional and local authorities would facilitate the issuing of the necessary authorisations. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of public-private partnerships, which are a key element in implementing solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. the european energy programme for economic recovery provides a financial package of eur 3,98 billion for 2009 and 2010. the creation of a special financial instrument for the use of the funds from this energy programme that could not be committed by the end of 2010 was imperative in order not to lose the rest of the financial package. a particularly important aspect mentioned in the regulation on the european energy programme is the balanced geographical distribution of projects, which is an essential element in order to ensure the impact of this regulation on economic recovery across the union and which recognises that in certain member states there have been projects that have either not been funded or have been only partially funded. last but not least, i would stress the importance of renewing these types of financial instruments aimed at the union's long-term energy efficiency. i ask the commission to closely assess the effectiveness of renewing these types of instruments and to analyse the potential for using a similar approach in the future for other unspent funds from the eu budget.
i think it should be said at the outset that it is not farmers but consumers who are the main victims of the crisis we are talking about today. it is known that on farms grain prices influence about 80% of the feed price. this in turn influences about 70% of the cost of production. a proportional increase in the selling price of meat to the producer is impossible. the farmers have no contact with the final consumer, but turn to the processors, who always have the option of importing. at the same time, processors transfer the high profit margin they have become accustomed to in the selling price. unfortunately, this period overlaps with a general economic crisis, and the decline in the purchasing power of the population is also affecting livestock production. another aspect: with farmers having difficulty in securing food for their animals during the winter, many will choose to slaughter their animals, which will prolong the crisis for many years to come. in order to keep internal prices at a reasonable level and to meet the need for feed, intervention stocks must be released and i welcome the announcement made today by commissioner ciolos. i share the view of my colleagues who today stressed the importance of cultivating new genetically modified organisms to provide cheap animal feed and reduce dependence on imports. last but not least, today's debate is closely linked to the future of the common agricultural policy. we need a strong, well-funded and well-managed common agricultural policy, which allows for both structural development and modernisation measures and market measures and direct support.
in writing. european livestock farmers have recently been facing increasing difficulties. they have difficulty in coping with competition from third countries, as they do not meet the high standards of domestic producers and are always the victims of the european union's trade negotiations. but i hope we will see a different attitude from the european commission in the future, because it is not normal that european farmers always lose out in trade agreements. increased involvement of the commission in strengthening producer organisations in all livestock subsectors is also needed to enable them to negotiate better prices for their products, taking into account production prices. at the same time, i ask the commission to release cereals from intervention stocks as soon as possible to help this sector hit by the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the mobilisation of the egf in respect of aid to redundant workers. in october 2009, ireland submitted a request for assistance for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of redundancies in sr technics, an air transport company in the dublin region of ireland. the global financial and economic crisis has caused a reduction in air transport activity, leading to massive redundancies in this sector as well. in ireland, 1 135 redundancies were recorded between april and august 2009, 850 of which were at sr technics ireland ltd. recognising the importance of the egf for the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market, as evidenced by the approximately 11 applications approved in 2010 alone totalling over eur 30 million, i consider that this instrument is still insufficiently known and used at member state level. i also ask the european commission to analyse the redundancies in the public sector during the economic and financial crisis and to develop a similar egf instrument to support workers made redundant in the public sector in different member states.
in writing. − the adoption by a large majority of the report by mr agustín diaz de mera demonstrates the usefulness of the decision to lift the visa requirement for taiwan. the european parliament thus confirms its confidence in the important process of democratisation undertaken in recent years. i want to highlight the remarkable economic progress that taiwan has made. the volume of trade with the eu is significant, taiwan's economy is ranked 25th in the world and continues to grow by over 13% annually. the continued development reduces the chances of the eu facing an illegal migration flow from taiwan. i therefore believe that facilitating the movement of persons must become one of the main elements of bilateral cooperation. the decision to exempt taiwanese nationals from the visa requirement also takes into account the fulfilment of technical conditions relating to the security of travel documents. the introduction of biometric passports in 2008 is one of the positive measures implemented so far. i hope that the european parliament's decision will be approved by the council and that the new provisions will come into force this year. in conclusion, i consider that the decision of the taiwanese authorities to lift the visa requirement for romania, bulgaria and cyprus is appropriate, given the need to respect the reciprocity criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new amendment to regulation 539/2001 which includes the us northern mariana islands and taiwan on the so-called white list of countries exempt from the visa requirement for entry into the european union as i believe it contributes to increasing freedom of movement for european citizens. i also hope that taiwan will honour its commitment to remove romania and bulgaria from the list of countries for which visa requirements are maintained.
in writing. − access of local and regional public authorities to investment project financing for renewable energy and energy efficiency projects needs to be improved. i welcome the exchange of experience between local and regional authorities in the member states in developing cost-effective energy efficiency projects and in meeting climate change commitments. however, the union needs to implement the necessary financial mechanisms to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − welcomes the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the global approach to the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data to third countries and the commission recommendations to the council to authorise the opening of negotiations between the european union and australia, canada and the united states, for which i voted in favour; it is an approach that strikes the right balance between the security needs of the eu member states and the strict respect for citizens' rights and freedoms. the passenger name record is a highly sensitive database which must be protected as such, so as not to cause any damage to those whose names appear therein. it seems to me important to ensure that, in the negotiation of agreements with the usa, australia and canada, data cannot be used for profiling by extracting certain data from the register. i agree there's a difference between assessing security risks and creating profiles, which can be proven false by misinterpreting data. i hope that the agreements which the commission will negotiate with the countries concerned will meet the requirements of the resolution.
in writing. − as data protection, the right to information autonomy, individual rights and privacy are values that play a very important role in the current digital age and need to be protected with special attention, i believe that the eu must respect and promote a key principle in data protection policies and that any agreement or policy measure must also pass the test of legal proportionality, demonstrating that it aims to achieve the treaty's objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs to have a coherent and uniform view on the conclusion of future agreements in the field of pnr. this will help to ensure improved protection of personal data and privacy and at the same time help to use such data for the purpose of combating terrorism and serious cross-border crime.
in writing. − the european parliament resolution on european innovation partnerships under the flagship initiative 'innovation union' is a concrete initiative to achieve an integrated european innovation policy. it is all the more important because we must recognise that we have not achieved all the objectives of the lisbon agenda 2000 and that one of the engines of future economic growth must be innovation, the development of the research and development sector. i welcome the introduction of the innovative concept of european innovation partnerships, which is designed to create synergies between existing innovation initiatives. we will have to watch closely how the first pilot programme in this field develops, because it deals with a subject of concern to the whole of the union: the consequences of an ageing population and the extension of working life. my vote for the adoption of this resolution also takes into account the subsequent issues, which will be addressed after the evaluation of the pilot project, issues which are part of the general interest area.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe that the principle of public-private innovation partnerships can boost research and innovation and help to re-launch demand in times of crisis. they are also important for achieving the europe 2020 objectives of creating a more competitive economy, a fairer society and a greener society.
in writing. - i voted for the strengthening of the osce, based on the need to achieve a congruence of the three major dimensions underlying the organisation: political-military, economic-environmental and human. this strengthening of the osce must be achieved within a balance in which neither of these dimensions is supported to the detriment of the other. the effective response to security threats and challenges depends on the proper coordination and functioning of the three directorates. the osce must be the key factor in responding mainly to new threats such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber attacks, trafficking in human beings and drugs, and warnings, prevention and conflict resolution activities. a further reason to vote in favour of strengthening the osce is the human rights component, respect for minority rights and fundamental freedoms, which are central elements of the osce's integrated security concept.
in writing. − underlining that a society that respects human dignity is based on the principle of intergenerational equity, i believe this report is important for combating prejudice and discrimination in all its forms and faced by all groups in society. i believe that the migration of citizens, their successful integration, including their economic integration and social inclusion, can be one of the ways to deal with demographic change; and for this reason i agree that an open debate is essential to discuss different immigration policies. the elimination of prejudices against different cultural models is a prerequisite for the successful integration of migrants, complementing solidarity between generations and cultures. the report also proposes new provisions against age discrimination in access to goods and services. that is why i voted in favour of mr thomas mann's report.
in writing. − eu member states have been experiencing a dramatic decline in their birth rates in recent years, as their populations are increasingly ageing. it's good that life expectancy has increased, keeping people physically and mentally active for longer. in these circumstances, it is clear that we are faced with the prospect of a worsening of the situation, with a demographic imbalance that is having an impact on the economies and budgetary resources of the member states, and on the union as a whole. we are therefore faced with the possibility that future generations will bear the financial burden of these demographic developments. in these circumstances, the lisbon target of half of people aged 55 to 64 being employed becomes imperative, even if this year has been missed. to counter this, the involvement of young and older people in the labour market needs to be strengthened rapidly and decisively in a life-cycle approach. the percentage of unemployed people aged 15-24 is significantly higher than that of all other age groups in the eu. the proposal for a european youth guarantee is therefore advisable.
in writing. − as member states have the main tools to promote intergenerational equity and eliminate discrimination, and as the number of people over 60 years old in the european union will increase at an unprecedented rate, with the peak expected between 2015 and 2035, when two million people will join this segment of the population each year, i believe that the eu must have an effective policy to ensure that workers can remain in the labour market and are not discriminated against on grounds of age, and that the involvement of more women of all age groups in lifelong learning programmes must be maximised.
in writing. − age discrimination undermines solidarity between generations, being prohibited by the treaty, but remains widespread, considerably restricting older and younger workers' access to the labour market, social security and certain services. i voted for member states to take firm action against the grey or underground economy maintained by undeclared work, whose victims are mostly women, whose effects on the european labour market are more than disastrous, and not to be content with taking measures to protect their own workers. at the same time, undeclared work must be combated through concrete measures and the application of sanctions to employers and/or intermediaries. i also voted for the member states and the commission to cooperate in the area of care services supervision, cooperation in which member states could envisage, in respect of national care services, a network of contact points, which would allow, both at national and european level, to obtain information on the care services provided and their level of quality, and to make complaints about the quality of these services.
in writing. − research makes a fundamental contribution to economic growth, job creation and clean and sustainable energy. i support improving research funding in the european union, as it is essential to the achievement of a european research area that requires ensuring the highest standards of excellence, effectiveness and efficiency in research in order to attract and retain the best scientists in europe and to promote an innovative european economy based on knowledge and skills. europe must invest in research to develop new products and services that improve the quality of life of its citizens. i voted in favour of this framework programme because i believe it encourages the research communities, academia, civil society organisations, business and industry to participate in research projects.
in writing. − the union is keenly aware that research and innovation are the key to the future as they lead not only to the creation of new products but also to the creation of new jobs, resources and, consequently, economic growth. this will, in turn, lead to an increase in europe's competitiveness and, as a consequence, an increase in the quality of life. in these circumstances, the increase in bureaucracy in access to finance for those running research and innovation programmes only serves to dampen and reduce the enthusiasm of those developing them, who are already showing signs of losing confidence in the process. the current system should be replaced by a system that gives more confidence to applicants. a step forward would be to simplify the monitoring of the financial and administrative aspects of projects, while strengthening the scientific and technological evaluation process. it should be possible, firstly, to simplify bureaucratic control and to give more confidence to the scientific and business communities. a balance between trust and control, between risk-taking and the dangers of risk, is necessary to ensure the proper management of research funds.
in writing. − i voted for the simplification of the implementation of the research framework programmes, considering this as a fundamental aspect of facilitating scientific and educational development, which in turn can contribute to the creation of new jobs and economic growth, increasing the eu's competitiveness and improving the quality of life of its citizens. the current system should be replaced by a system that gives more confidence to applicants. the increase in funding applications has been met by increased control mechanisms in an attempt to ensure the proper use of eu funds. a balance needs to be struck between trust and control, between risk-taking and the dangers that risk entails, to ensure the correct financial management of eu research funds. the european parliament has voted in favour of the new eu funds, which are intended to help the new member states in eastern europe to bring their research up to western standards.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that the implementation of the seventh research framework programme (fp7) suffered from certain weaknesses which prevented it from being put into practice under the best conditions. i believe that this parliament's proposal provides the necessary solutions to simplify grant award procedures, involve small businesses and new entrants more and increase synergies between fp7 funds and other european funds, including structural funds.
in writing. - the positive vote on this report is based on three aspects. the first relates to my previous activities. we've noticed the great attention that citizens have paid to research in the area of early detection and therefore prevention of cancer, and it's become clear that research is essential to improving people's lives, but only if the link is clear. i therefore considered that this report, which aims to simplify the way in which r & d & i funding is allocated through framework programme 7, deserves to be promoted. the second aspect is the importance i attach to smes as central to the economic development and the development of the european union's global competitiveness. the report's provisions on ensuring access to information and facilitating sme participation by developing the one-stop shop system, the open access initiative, and training campaigns made me appreciate the report and give it my vote. last but not least, i appreciated the contributions to the future framework programme 8, which needs to be much more transparent, flexible and easily accessible. the proposals for simplification, clarification, appreciation of the results proposed in the report are commendable.
in writing. − science, education and innovation are the pillars of economic growth and job creation. europe must invest in innovation if it is to develop new products and services. research and innovation are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy, but it is particularly difficult for smaller organisations, smes, high-tech start-ups and smaller institutes, universities and research centres to cope with the complexity of the procedures for accessing funds for this sector. the scientific community is urgently calling for harmonisation of rules and procedures and a general simplification of financial responsibility requirements. recently, 13 000 researchers signed a petition calling for greater simplification and trust in eu research funding. it is, of course, necessary to simplify the mechanisms involved in the community framework programmes for research, technological development and demonstration activities, fp7 and fp8, and in all the european commission's innovation and science programmes. i believe that much more research is needed to measure the impact of environmental and climate policies on employment, and i call on the commission to give priority to this area in the eighth framework programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the crisis in the livestock sector because i believe that the market management mechanisms in the livestock sector need to be strengthened. in this respect, it is necessary to apply the necessary measures to limit the consequences of price volatility and speculation. i believe that market instruments must guarantee an adequate supply of cereals for animal feed. in this regard, the european commission should propose flexible market mechanisms to react more quickly. i believe it is important for the european union to have a tool to estimate the evolution of world markets. the new european external action service could be a very appropriate instrument to help anticipate strategic changes in third countries and promote the european model of agriculture throughout the world. finally, i would like to point out that an assessment of the economic impact of introducing new welfare rules is essential and the current legislation should be fully implemented before new regulations are introduced.
in writing. - the food market has developed in recent years in a paradoxical way. one is that, despite rising food prices, farmers, including livestock farmers in the eu, are facing an income crisis that threatens the existence of their farms and impoverishes them. we must be aware that the high quality standards imposed on livestock farmers come at a cost, and if competition from imports from third countries which do not impose the same high standards, not to mention the case of chinese milk powder infected with melamine, is not kept under control, these costs will lead to a reduction in community production in this field. the commission's intention to release a quantity of fodder cereals is only one step towards helping the sector, and others must follow. that is why i believe that the recommendations contained in the resolution, if they are taken up by the commission and implemented, will meet the demands of the farmers, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − given that european producers are at a competitive disadvantage compared to producers in third countries because their production costs are higher, largely due to the need to comply with very high standards in animal health and welfare, food safety, environmental protection and working conditions, i consider the european commission's involvement in ensuring an adequate supply of feed grain to be unwarranted.
president of the ecb. mr president, mr rapporteur, honourable members of parliament, mr balz, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, the committee on the environment, have all made a very good report. i have the honour to present to you, as required by the treaty, the 2009 annual report of the european central bank. because of the slightly upset timetable, particularly with the european elections, i spoke to you last march on the previous annual report. this is the second time this year that i have spoken before parliament. first of all, let me welcome the support once again expressed in the european parliament's motion for a resolution for regular hearings before the committee on economic and monetary affairs and, more generally, for maintaining close relations with the european central bank. i am particularly pleased that this year the european parliament has shown very strongly its willingness and ability to put the european interest first, particularly in the financial supervision package. i shall first give you a brief overview of the monetary policy measures taken by the ecb during the financial and economic crisis. i would also like to look back at the ecb during its first twelve years. finally, i would like to address the most urgent challenges that await us in 2011. mr president, let me first mention the action taken during the crisis. 2009 was a most challenging year for the ecb's monetary policy. it started with a severe economic downturn worldwide following the outbreak of the financial crisis in autumn 2008. in this environment of subdued inflationary pressures, we continued with our policy of lowering our key rates further. overall, within a period of only seven months between october 2008 and may 2009 we lowered our main refinancing rate by 325 basis points. this brought our main refinancing rate to 1%. to ensure that households and firms in the euro area would benefit from these most favourable financing conditions, in 2009 we also continued with and even extended our enhanced credit support to euro area banks. we did this in response to dysfunctional money markets that had weakened the ability of monetary policy to influence the outlook for price stability by means of interest rate decisions alone. among those non-standard measures as we used to call them the most prominent is the full allotment liquidity provision through our refinancing operations with euro area banks against good collateral and at the main refinancing rate prevailing at the time for several maturities extending well beyond the weekly operations . in 2009 we also extended the maturity of our longer-term refinancing operation to one year. these were, of course, decisions of extreme importance. as rightly emphasised in your draft resolution on the ecb's annual report, this enhanced credit support has been successful in avoiding what would have been if additional dysfunctional tensions had been observed a depression or a much deeper recession. let me emphasise that all our action was fully in line with our mandate to deliver price stability in the medium term for the euro area as a whole. that we have been able to credibly deliver on our mandate is reflected in a favourable inflation outlook and well-anchored inflation expectations in the euro area. following some improvements in financial market conditions in the course of 2009, renewed market tensions erupted in a number of segments of the euro area bond market. since the smooth functioning of the bond market is essential to the transmission of the ecb's key interest rates, we decided to intervene in the euro area debt securities markets with the aim of helping to restore a more normal transmission of monetary policy to the economy. to this end, we introduced our securities markets programme. to ensure that this program does not impact our monetary policy stance, we re-absorb all the liquidity injected. to sum up, let me emphasize that all the non-standard measures we have adopted during the period of acute financial stress are temporary in nature and were designed with exit considerations in mind. some of the non-standard measures initiated in 2009 and early 2010 have already been phased out in view of improvements in conditions in some financial markets and taking the ongoing recovery of the euro area economy into account. let me share with you for a moment a few thoughts on the track record of the euro. in my view, three elements are fundamental. first, the ecb has delivered what it was expected to deliver according to its treaty mandate, namely price stability. indeed, euro area average inflation over the past almost 12 years stands at 1.97%. this fully reflects our definition of price stability, namely our aim to keep annual inflation rates in the euro area below 2% and close to 2% in the medium term. in this sense, the euro system over the past 12 years has operated as an anchor of stability and confidence and has done so during the most recent times, despite the challenging environment created by the global financial crisis. secondly and reflecting favourably on the credibility of the ecb's monetary policy inflation expectations have, as i have said, remained solidly anchored at levels in line with price stability. thirdly, this success is based, we trust, on the ecb's full independence from political influence, on its primary mandate to maintain price stability and on its transparent communication, particularly concerning the definition of price stability. the ecb's two-pillar monetary strategy allows for a forward-looking and medium-term-oriented course of action that is underpinned by a solid analytical framework. that framework includes a thorough analysis of monetary and credit developments, taking the monetary nature of inflation over the medium to longer term into account. we consider that this comprehensive approach allows for well-informed and consistent decision-making, whilst being steady and looking beyond short-term volatility. as regards the external dimension of the euro, let me just say that our currency has established itself internationally. in 2009 the euro represented around 30% of the stock of international debt securities and the stock of global foreign exchange reserves. speaking of the external dimension of the euro, i will say a word on the present foreign exchange rate issues, domains where i would call for great prudence. there are two major topics. one is the relationship between the major floating convertible currencies of the industrialized countries, such as the dollar, the euro, the yen, the pound sterling and the canadian dollar. these currencies have been floating since the collapse of the bretton woods system at the beginning of the 1970s. i should underline the strong view of the international community that excessive volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for economic and financial stability. let me say that the ecb appreciates the recent statements by the us authorities, namely the us secretary of the treasury and the chairman of the federal reserve, reiterating that a strong dollar vis-à-vis the other major convertible currencies is in the interests of the united states. i share this view entirely. a dollar that is credible among the major currencies of the advanced economies is in the interests of the united states, of europe and of the entire international community. the second topic concerns the currencies of emerging market economies which have current account surpluses and exchange rates that are not sufficiently flexible. on this issue, the international community agrees and this was reiterated in korea last week, as well as by the commission that moving towards more market-determined exchange rate systems, enhancing exchange rate stability to reflect underlying fundamentals and refraining from competitive devaluation of currencies are in the interest of the emerging economies concerned and of the international community. the ecb used to say that this is no time for complacency. this is truer now than ever. the challenges lying ahead of us are manifold. all relevant authorities as well as the private sector must assume their responsibilities fully, and this is true for executive branches, central banks, regulators, supervisors, the private sector and the financial industry. in particular, the current crisis has clearly demonstrated that implementing ambitious reforms in economic governance is in the interest of both the euro area countries and the euro area as a whole. the proposals put forward by president van rompuy on the reform of the eu's economic governance and approved by the european council meeting of october 2010 represent an improvement to the current surveillance framework at eu level and seem broadly appropriate for the eu countries not participating in monetary union. however, as regards the specific requirements of the euro area, in our opinion they fall short of what we view as necessary to ensure the best possible functioning of the single currency economy. i am convinced that, over the coming months, the european parliament will help europe make the necessary quantum leap in economic governance a reality. with its legislative role concerning financial supervision and the esrb, parliament has shown its determination when it comes to major issues. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for this, and to reiterate my conviction that the influence of parliament will be decisive in the economic governance debate. another important challenge relates to financial regulation. we should take full advantage of the lessons of the crisis and maintain the momentum for financial reform. as advocated in your draft resolution, a speedy implementation of basel iii is of crucial importance. the commission's legislative proposals on short selling and over-the-counter derivatives are also indispensable to making the financial system more transparent and resilient. we are facing a decisive year. 2011 should see the adoption of the revised governance framework, in-depth discussions on the crisis management framework and possibly the launch of the procedure for a treaty change. we need to get all these reforms right, so as to ensure that europe as a whole and the euro area can meet future challenges with even greater capacity and conviction. 2011 will also be the first year of the european systemic risk board. as is called for in your draft resolution, we are doing our utmost to support the new body. at the same time, of course, the complete independence and primary mandate of the ecb, enshrined in the maastricht treaty, are unchanged, and i have already stressed this point before parliament. we will continue to deliver on our mandate. this is what the treaty requires from us. you can trust that we will deliver what our fellow citizens expect.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, burkhard balz, for the solid and comprehensive report on the ecb annual report 2009. the commission welcomes the report, which reflects the key issues appropriately. the report recognises and praises the work done by the ecb in managing the crisis. the commission shares this view; the ecb, under the leadership of president jean-claude trichet, has navigated in this difficult situation skilfully and with a steady hand. i want to use this opportunity to thank jean-claude trichet for an excellent cooperation and especially for his crucial role during these turbulent times. the ecb has, both through its monitoring stance and its non-standard measures, been instrumental in the fire-fighting to overcome the crisis and thus in laying the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation. your report rightly stresses that the financial crisis has exposed the need for reinforced economic surveillance in the euro area. the commission agrees with this, which is precisely why we have put forward several legislative proposals to reinforce economic governance in the eu, especially in the euro area. we have also taken on board several suggestions presented in the feio report to strengthen and broaden economic governance in the union. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has received the commission’s proposals and is currently working towards achieving the ambitious deadline of june next year, which i appreciate and welcome. let me now turn to the second part of the debate, which is the latest developments in the international exchange rates. it is correct that volatility in foreign exchange markets has increased in recent weeks, with significant shifts in the value of major bilateral exchange rates. the euro appreciated against the dollar since june this year due to stronger data for the euro area economy and due to further expansion of the us monetary policy. more recently, however, the euro has somewhat weakened against most currencies, as increased worries about the member states’ public finances – above all in ireland – have affected the euro. in real effective terms, the euro is currently close to its long-term average following an overall depreciation this year from an overvalued level at the end of last year. compared to the beginning of the year, the euro depreciation in real effective terms amounts to around 7%. in the context of a slow recovery in advanced economies and large capital flows to emerging economies, many countries have aimed at weakening their currency or at least resorting to competitive non-appreciation. it is therefore important that leaders in the g20 seoul summit last week very clearly and strongly committed themselves to abstain from competitive devaluations of their currencies. the g20 summit also agreed to work further on the rebalancing of global growth. an agreement had been reached to work on indicative guidelines. it is clear that exchange rate flexibility must play a role in the necessary rebalancing so that exchange rates reflect economic fundamentals, as was underlined by president trichet. the commission will continue to support this important strand of g20 work, which will also be one of the key focuses of the french g20 presidency next year. finally, i need to inform you about an important development concerning the euro area. yesterday when the ecofin council welcomed the request of the irish government for financial assistance from the eu, ministers concurred with the commission and the ecb that providing assistance to ireland is warranted to safeguard financial stability in europe. eu financial support can be provided under a programme with a rigorous policy conditionality which is being negotiated currently with the irish authorities by the commission and the imf, in liaison with the ecb. the programme will address the fiscal challenges of the irish economy in a decisive manner and the programme will also include a fund for potential future capital needs of the banking sector. to redress stress in the banking sector, a comprehensive range of measures including deleveraging and restructuring will need to be taken to contribute to ensuring that the irish banking system performs its role properly in the functioning of the overall economy. the technical talks on an eu-imf programme are now well underway and the negotiations can be concluded by the end of november. apart from eu and imf financing, i can inform you that the united kingdom and sweden have indicated that they stand ready to contribute to the programme through bilateral loans, which is welcome. all in all, yesterday’s decisions are a critical step forward in the joint efforts to stabilise the irish economy and thus safeguard financial stability in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr balz, for his cooperation and to welcome the conferral of european institution status on the european central bank with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. secondly, i would point out the existence of substantial macroeconomic disparities between the euro area economies, which demonstrates the need for closer coordination of economic and monetary policies. the stability and growth pact is not a sufficient instrument to address the existing economic imbalances. one solution to this impasse could be the release of government bonds at the european level. this solidarity mechanism would ensure stable funding for member states in difficulty, increase the efficiency of budgetary surveillance and have a significant liquidity effect. the common currency must be supplemented by fiscal austerity and a unified long-term debt. the risk-taking behaviour of financial actors contributed to the outbreak of the economic and financial crisis. in addition, recent speculative attacks on certain member states have contributed to the latter's difficulty in borrowing money on international financial markets, affecting virtually the stability of the euro area as a whole. i therefore believe that a permanent mechanism is needed to defend the euro area against speculative attacks and that it is the duty of the european commission to monitor the work of the current credit rating agencies and to think about the architecture of a european credit rating agency. we also need to bear in mind that austerity measures by national governments could significantly reduce the chances of a european economic recovery, which is why a model of economic governance at european level is needed that combines fiscal consolidation with job creation. the commission must also propose specific targets to reduce the competitiveness gap between european economies and, not least, aim to invest in green energy.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mr balz for his work on this report. the austerity packages proposed for the exit from the crisis should not lead to measures that could jeopardise the economic recovery. considers it necessary to ensure a balance between the process of economic consolidation and the protection of investments through jobs and sustainable development. the lesson of the countries that entered the euro area unprepared should make us think seriously about setting realistic deadlines. in this context, a one- or two-year delay may be accepted. the enlargement must continue subject to the fulfilment of the maastricht criteria. in this respect, i believe that the adoption of the euro should not be seen as a one-off solution but should be part of a broad medium-term political strategy.
on behalf of the s&d group. as the council's proposal for a directive shows, the minimum vat rate ensured that the system operated at an acceptable level. i believe that we should consider common regulation, which includes the lessons learned from the experience of budgetary imbalances highlighted by the financial crisis. a new european vat strategy is needed, focusing on reducing bureaucracy and tax obstacles to business, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. we also have to take into account the need to prevent and combat fraud, but until this strategy is finalised, i believe that the extension of the transitional provision on the minimum vat rate until 31 december 2015 is a decision designed to ensure certainty for the business environment, to prevent structural imbalances in the european union and to encourage the harmonisation of tax legislation. while awaiting the commission's green paper on the revision of the value added tax system, i would like to draw attention to the tendency of some governments facing recession to raise vat to 24-25%, as has happened in romania and hungary. so far the relative commitment to keep the maximum vat rate within 10 percentage points above the 15% threshold has been respected, but i believe that in order to prevent any breaches of the 25% threshold we need an imperative ban on this. let us not forget that beyond these figures are citizens whose living standards are increasingly affected by austerity policies and excessive taxation. in conclusion, i want to say that overtaxation is not a solution to a sick economy, it only prolongs its agony.
the new vat strategy should aim to reduce administrative burdens, remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, especially for smes. there is a lack of balance in relation to the development of the internal market. this puts european companies at a disadvantage. moreover, the vat system as currently designed and applied in the member states has shortcomings, which are exploited by tax evaders. i would like to call on the commission to present the results of its analysis. it will also have to organise consultations on the new vat strategy with all stakeholders. in this context, common issues such as reduced vat rates, derogations from the system, the appropriateness of setting a maximum rate and, not least, the place of taxation for intra-eu supplies will have to be addressed.
i appreciate, once again, the promptness of the european union's humanitarian intervention. but in parallel with this, i believe that our efforts in this country must focus on building a minimum of functioning state, given that the haitian state is now only a fiction. it fails to fulfill its basic missions, such as organizing refugee camps, maintaining order, and providing sanitation and drinking water. this vulnerability allowed the epidemic to spread rapidly and resulted in the deaths of over 1,200 people. haiti needs a state that can do something for its poor. three out of four haitians survive on less than two dollars a day. over 1.5 million citizens live in refugee camps, posing a serious risk to public health and order. i think the weakness of the haitian state is now the main risk factor. his lack of authority is turning public grievances towards the un forces, and ngos are in danger of losing their mission. that's why the november 28th elections are crucial, and they must not be postponed, as some voices are demanding.
member of the commission. − mr president, during my hearing as commissioner-designate i made it clear that information to patients is a very important topic for me. patients are highly interested in their own health and wellbeing. but today the availability of information on medicines in europe is very diverse: you could even say very unfair. whether patients obtain the relevant information depends on languages, it skills and often even social class and networks. for a europe that strives to overcome today’s health and inequalities, this is not sustainable. the key ambition of the commission’s initial proposal therefore remains justified, and i applaud parliament and in particular your rapporteur, mr fjellner, on taking this important proposal forward. however, i strongly believe – as i also stressed during my hearing – that we have to address this file from a patient’s angle. we have to ask what information patients need, not what information industry may wish to provide. we have to ensure that we do not drift into direct-to-consumer advertising, which patients clearly do not want. again i applaud parliament for taking exactly this stance. this will allow the commission to accept many of your key amendments when we present our modified proposals. this concerns, in particular, the obligation to publish information, the question of what information is covered, the information distribution channels and the control mechanisms. firstly, i support the amendment stating that industry must have the obligation and not just the right to make certain information on medicinal products available. this is a very important change. secondly, as regards what information is published, i generally agree that information should not cover comparisons between medicinal products, as this could be seen as promotional. of course this information is highly relevant for patients and healthcare professionals but, due to its potential abuse for promotion, it needs a strict framework. we are cooperating with member states on such a framework in the area of health technology assessments. i also share the view that the proposals should concern the information made available by industry and not by third parties such as journalists and scientists. however, we know that there is a grey zone which leaves room for abuse. i therefore believe that such parties should be obliged to declare whether they have received financial or other benefits from industry. thirdly, as regards the information channels, i partially agree with your amendments. however, not everybody uses the internet; we must avoid corroborating inequalities by excluding those who do not use digital communication tools from access to medical information. i consider, therefore, that it should be possible for industry to draft printed material on its own initiative and not only by request. this draft information could be used on request by the public or via healthcare professionals. fourthly, on the control of information, i agree that information which has not already been approved during the marketing authorisation process must be pre-approved by competent authorities as a matter of principle. however, i believe that europe should play close attention to the constitutional concerns that some member states raise as regards the compatibility of pre-vetting with freedom of expression. it should be possible for these member states to provide for exposed control, irrespective of whether they already have such exposed control in place. several of parliament’s amendments concern information from sources other than industry sources. in this context, let me stress that i fully agree with the political ambition to place the proposals on industry-generated information on medicines, which we are discussing today, in a broader and more comprehensive agenda on patient information. yes, there are other very important sources which have to be exploited as fully as possible, but the proposals are not the right place to address them. the commission is already obliged to draft a report on the readability of the package leaflet. therefore, any changes regarding this issue would be premature. nor is it feasible to introduce, for each clinical study mentioned in the summary of the european public assessment report, a link to the eurydice database on clinical trials. a general link between databases would suffice. the public summary of the assessment report should not be annexed to the european marketing authorisation, as it is already publicly available through the ema website. i recognise that, in addition to information provided by industry, there are already a number of european and national databases and portals providing information on medicinal products. what we lack is interlinkage between them. i propose that the future european medicinal web portal recently created by the pharmacovigilance directive be used as a central point to access information. in this context i fully recognise the need for broader information about diseases and their prevention. patients are interested in all different treatment options, not just learning about medicines. however, this cannot be addressed through the present proposals, which focus on medicines. nevertheless, the commission is well placed to serve as a european information switchboard. i see our role as connecting other reliable information providers such as member states or patient organisations. european action can add value, and many information tools such as the eu health portal are already in place. honourable members, you will not be surprised that there are some amendments that the commission, after careful reflection, cannot support. the right of citizens to lodge complaints, for example, is a fundamental eu principle. it is neither appropriate nor necessary to restate this. the level of penalties should be determined at national level and not at european legislative level. a list of the commission’s positions on all the proposed amendments has been made available to parliament. let me conclude by again thanking parliament and mr fjellner and the shadow rapporteurs for your important contribution. i hope this week’s vote will help strengthen patients’ access to information and convince the council of the need to start in-depth discussions of the proposals.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the other colleagues who have contributed to this dossier. i would also like to congratulate commissioner dalli. i think we have reached a good outcome, and now the report is much more patient-oriented than the initial proposal. nowadays, patients increasingly tend to seek health-related information so that they can be actively involved in the decisions concerning their health. patients also tend to seek information online. this information is not easy to control on the internet, but sooner or later we have to deal with that problem, which will not disappear if we simply do not do anything because it is too complicated. i therefore support imposing strict rules for the registration and monitoring of websites, as well as making available a list of registered websites so that patients can be sure of the reliability of their source. safeguards are also needed, and the report provides them, namely by limiting the information that can be made available to information that is approved by the competent authorities. to this end, we in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have adopted number of amendments covering advertising, concentrating on changing the wording from ‘disseminate’ to ‘make available’ in the context of non-promotional information according to the ‘pull principle’, whereby patients have access to information if they need it.
in writing. – the environment committee has made some important improvements to the commission's proposal which, in its original form, would not have prevented all forms of advertising of prescription drugs directly to patients. prescription medicines are not like ordinary consumer goods. they should be supplied by clinical experts, not marketed like cars or cosmetics. so i welcome the continued ban on advertising of prescription medicines on television, radio, and in the print media. healthcare professionals remain the most trusted source of information about medicines. so i cannot support the rapporteur's amendment which would allow healthcare professionals to distribute additional, unapproved material from the pharmaceutical companies directly to patients. this would represent a clear opportunity to advertise, something which we want to avoid and which would be inconsistent with our position against direct advertising to patients. it is especially inappropriate because the material directly from the pharmaceutical company would, in the patient's eyes, carry the legitimacy of the doctor distributing it. on the whole, the report represents improvements for patients compared to the commission proposal, and we should not undermine these improvements by allowing pharmaceutical companies to advertise directly to patients in the doctor’s surgery.
i would like to express my concern about the excessive politicization of the issue of romania's accession to the schengen area that i have recently witnessed. i think it is not fair to confuse the criteria for judicial reform with the criteria for accession to the schengen area. romania is prepared and fulfils the technical conditions, which, moreover, must be the sole criteria on the basis of which the evaluation is made. romania is not and will not be an exporter of crime and cannot accept that some specific problems of romanian immigrant communities are transferred to all romanians. we are aware that the vote in the justice and home affairs council next spring will be a political vote, but we believe that this vote must be based on an objective and fair assessment, and not on considerations with electoral connotations.
early parliamentary elections will be held in the republic of moldova on 28 november. for more than a year since the alliance for european integration has been in government, important progress has been made in reforming the society and economy of the republic of moldova. the alliance for european integration has also demonstrated its sincere desire to go irreversibly on the european path. for all these things and seeing these advances, the european union has supported and supports politically and financially the republic of moldova. i hope with all my heart that sunday's elections will definitively validate the republic of moldova's path towards full democracy, towards the rule of law and a functioning market economy, and finally towards the european family of which i hope the republic of moldova will be a full member in the near future.
91% of young people between the ages of 18 and 27 believe that the economic situation in the country has changed for the worse. only 33% of young people do not want to leave romania. through the policy of cutting, the current power in bucharest stimulates the migration of brains abroad. lunar we learn that young people sent to training by the romanian state, through the program initiated by the social democrats in 2004, are fired from the administration or they are not able to find a job, although they have all the experience and will necessary to bring efficiency to the system. i support labour market mobility, but the government in bucharest needs to create new jobs that also benefit from their expertise. i want to convey to the romanian scholarship holders, to the student associations like the romanian students' league abroad all our support.
unfortunately, romania has become the wild frontier of europe. it was bad with the communist dictatorship, but it's infinitely worse with the mafia dictatorship. the main arms of the mafia octopus are the judiciary and the police, which are being eaten by the cancer of corruption. since january 1990 over 5,000 murders have been committed in romania by unknown perpetrators. romania is a haven for the clans of indigenous intruders protected by the judiciary and the police, but it is also a dumping ground for pedophiles, charlatans and the most primitive foreign agents. it's good that the berlin wall fell, but it's bad that it fell on us, the peoples of eastern europe. in december of 1989, some thrill seekers woke up dracula from his slumber, and now we don't know how to get rid of him.
early parliamentary elections are being held in the republic of moldova on sunday. the choice is between the democratic forces and the communists. the victory of the democratic forces, today united in the alliance for european integration, guarantees that the progress of the past year will continue - progress towards democratic governance, rights and welfare for the people. democratic forces must stand together before and after the elections. these sunday elections must be free and fair, and people must have access to information. the violence of april 2009 must not be repeated. democratic governments are not established by fraud, violence or fear. of course, the citizens of the republic of moldova vote on sunday, not us. but we in this parliament support those who bring about democratic change, we stand in solidarity with them and we motivate them.
madam president, a word on the presidential elections in côte d'ivoire, because i am the head of the eu election observation mission in that country. in fact, since the beginning of october, we have had about 100 observers from 26 countries deployed throughout the territory of côte d'ivoire. the first round went pretty well on october 31. there was no fraud or violence. the announcement of the results was delayed a bit, but in general there were no major incidents. the second round is scheduled for next sunday. it is more tense, because there have already been confrontations in the streets, the tone of the campaign has become aggressive, including towards our observers. in some cases, these observers are prevented from carrying out their work of monitoring the preparations for the campaign. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the elections are held in a peaceful manner. it is extremely important to protect our observers until sunday and beyond.
in writing. with the shift from analogue to digital television and the rise of new media, including 3d, we need to consider a number of factors in our policy making. first, i believe it is useful to take measures to facilitate the digital switchover, including the possibility of offering vouchers or other compensatory measures to the population. it would also be important to organise training courses for journalists and managers in public broadcasting, given the substantial amounts allocated to this chapter by the private media. i also think it is worth considering the possibility of establishing a european public service broadcaster in the future. i also think it would be useful for public television stations in the member states to contribute programmes of european interest to euronews programmes. in view of the scale of 3d productions and the warnings issued by doctors about the impact on the health of viewers, i call on the european commission to draw up a study as a matter of urgency to take account of the possible risks that 3d television may pose to the health of europeans under current technical conditions.
in writing. the european union needs to react quickly in crisis situations, and this requires more effective coordination of its civil and military structures. the establishment of a permanent eu operational command, located in the vicinity of the civilian planning and command cell, would maximise the benefits of civil-military coordination. as regards the report's call for member states to make civilian capabilities available to make real progress as soon as possible, i would like to underline that, in the civilian field, romania is actively contributing to the achievement of the global civilian goal 2010. romania's significant participation in civilian missions of the union has led to my country being ranked third in europe for participation in such missions, contributing with a solid and varied expertise - police, gendarmes, military, diplomats, judges, human rights experts. romania is also in the advanced stages of adopting a national strategy on civilian capabilities.
i hope that this debate today will not only be an occasion to commemorate resolution 1325, but a new beginning and a new approach to this issue that continues to exist in virtually the same ways that led to the adoption of resolution 1325. i do not think that statements are enough, statements that are also a reality; i think that action is necessary and it is the task of the european union in the context of the current security policy to create a first code of conduct in conflicts and in post-conflict operations although we have a convention, the geneva convention, which condemns violent behaviour in times of conflict. i believe that this kind of behaviour would be an added value for the european union, a step towards solving this issue. the other elements of involvement must be backed up by coherent financial assistance from a strategy for our development projects.
in writing. national and international declarations, resolutions and plans to improve the protection of women in theatres of conflict have not resulted in the eradication of this barbaric weapon frequently used in modern warfare: sexual violence. on the contrary, impunity provides the conditions for proliferation in this direction, which is completely contrary to our values. i am among those who have repeatedly denounced the mass rapes in congo, liberia and other conflict zones, especially in africa. thousands of women who fall victim to sexual abuse and violence are also condemned to later endure the social stigma and the burden of terrible diseases such as hiv infection. the international day for the elimination of violence against women, which we celebrate on 25 november, should also remind us that women are victims of domestic violence, which is alarmingly common, of marital rape, sexual harassment and human trafficking. gender-based violence, whether in the home or in conflict zones, is one of the most serious violations of human rights and must be addressed and punished accordingly.
i believe that both the proposal to close the mines and the suggestion to reduce subsidies would be premature and would have undesirable socioeconomic and regional consequences. we must not forget that the mining sector in europe employs some 100 000 people, 42 000 in the coal sector and 55 000 in related sectors, and that certain regions in europe are completely dependent on this sector economically. a large number of people in these areas work in mines or have occupations related to the sector. the consequences of such measures could be disastrous, even impoverishing entire communities. a strategy for the retraining of workers affected by mine closure plans must therefore be developed rapidly. special support from the european union's structural funds is also needed to rebuild the regions that will suffer from these measures. in addition, miners and their families can lose confidence in the political process through which such decisions are made, which directly affect them, if they are made at the wrong time. we must also look at the less populated regions, which will suffer the most socioeconomically. i don't think 2014 is a realistic time frame for mine closures. on the other hand, the 2020 deadline proposal, which was put forward by the itre commission, did not have enough positive feedback and therefore i believe that we can find a common denominator in 2018. i would also like to mention that the coal industry is an integral part of european policy and is a source of its own, thus guaranteeing security of supply. a transitional period is needed to enable these mines and those which could become competitive to become competitive in order to ensure access to european coal and to avoid adverse socioeconomic effects.
coal is an important part of the european union's energy mix. in the european union, the coal mining sector provides 280 000 jobs, mainly in mono-industrial areas. it is therefore important that the union should secure as much of its coal needs from domestic production as possible, obviously at a competitive price, based on the efficiency of the coal extraction and processing process. without the state aid, production will fall by 20% and 100,000 jobs will be lost. state aid to the oil industry is very necessary for non-competitive mines. they are uncompetitive because of their outdated technical equipment and the state aid would allow them to retrofit these facilities to ensure job security. we support the commission's proposal to delay the closure of the mines. the itre committee voted for 2020 and we will support the compromise reached by rapporteur rapkay and his colleagues from the other political groups. we support the abolition of article 3 (1) (h) and in particular the abolition of the percentage prescribed for the phasing out of aid granted, so that member states which will grant state aid to uncompetitive coal mines have as much flexibility as possible. i believe, however, that the member states should also present plans for the economic and social development of mining regions, which are often mono-industrialised regions. these development plans should aim at job creation and investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy production. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr rapkay, on his report and on the work he has done.
i have already heard the views of my colleagues who have stressed the importance of coal for the energy security of the european economy. i'd like to add one more argument. in some countries, including romania, in years of drought and these have been increasing hydro and nuclear power production is reduced. the only resource that my country and other countries had immediately available to increase energy production was coal. we have a number of mines that are unprofitable, but they have restructuring programs that go beyond the 2014 horizon. as a liberal, i'm against subsidies for economic firms, but not for firms with clear restructuring programs. therefore, i will support the amendment which proposes a longer transition period for the elimination of subsidies to unprofitable coal mines.
although subsidised coal accounts for only a small part of the european union's electricity production, the social impact of the immediate and simultaneous closure of the coal mines will be significant in certain areas of europe. we are talking about a large number of people working in this industry, who will not be able to be immediately re-employed in other sectors, thus generating unemployment and creating deprived areas. i believe that, by using community funds, immediate measures are needed to re-qualify these people. in the meantime, it is absolutely necessary to extend the date until which state aid for closure of production units can be granted, at least until 2018. i also consider that the determination of the degree of reduction of state aid after a certain period should be left to the discretion of the member state concerned and that member states should not be bound by any minimum thresholds imposed.
first of all, i'd like to congratulate mr. rapkay on his hard work. and i think it's very important that the transition period is as long as possible - 2018, as proposed, i proposed even more, for the closure of non-competitive mines or possibly for the profitability of some of them, because in mining areas the majority of the population is involved in this activity. it is absolutely necessary that we have plans for vocational retraining and socio-economic recovery. closing the mines before these plans are fully realized will lead to extremely serious social problems. the plans for vocational retraining and ecological rehabilitation of areas take a long time and, especially in the current crisis situation, it would be normal to also make use of the european structural funds, taking into account the social, economic and ecological importance for the european union.
it has been said here by our colleagues that there is a debate coming back to the european parliament and indeed there is a debate coming back, but under different economic and social conditions from those of the past. we are in a global crisis and the european union is in crisis. no one believes that we are out of this crisis yet, and recession is a reality in many member states. in these circumstances, i do not think that we - this parliament - should contribute to adding another 100 000 unemployed to the number of unemployed in the european union. and then - another piece of context - we're talking about the new energy strategy of the european union. in this new strategy, i believe that increasing our dependence on a single source of hydrocarbons should not be the way, but increasing our economic independence. and then there was talk of the 21st century economy. yes, i think we need to connect to this economy, but we also need to focus on diversifying the existing potential. i congratulate mr rapkay on that.
in writing. in preparing this document, the rapporteur has achieved an important step - that of finding an answer to two questions: the environmental question and the question on social protection. from romania's point of view, and i believe this view is shared by germany, poland, spain and hungary, the mining industry is an important part of the national economy and the closure of coal mines can have a major social impact, with an effect on increasing unemployment and accentuating the depopulation of regions that have only one industry - mining. at the same time, the closure of the mines will also have a significant influence on the energy sector. i know that all of these are arguments for and against, but the reality of the moment leads us to only one conclusion - that of extending the closure date of uncompetitive coal mines to support them in order to find viable alternatives for all those involved in this sector.
in writing. − i consider the request for assistance from ireland regarding the solidarity fund following the torrential rains and resulting major floods in november 2009 to be important and welcome. the floods have caused serious damage to the agricultural sector, homes and businesses, the road network and other infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the mobilisation of the egf in respect of the provision of assistance to redundant persons. in december 2009, the netherlands submitted an application for assistance to be used for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of redundancies in graphic design enterprises in eight regions. the request concerns 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises active in the printing and reproduction of printed media. the redundancies took place between 1 april and 29 december 2009 in two neighbouring regions of 'nord-brabant' and 'zuid holland'. the economic and financial crisis also led to a decline in demand in the printing and publishing industry of around 32% for printed advertising material and of between 7,5 and 18,2% for magazines and newspapers. in order to remain competitive compared to similar industries in turkey, china and india, the printing and publishing industry in the netherlands has undergone a significant restructuring process. i consider it necessary to simplify the procedure for awarding these funds so that the egf is easily accessible to the undertakings concerned.
in writing. - i voted for the draft reports by my colleague barbara matera on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the netherlands because i believe that the european union must come to the aid of displaced workers by providing them with dynamic and effective financial assistance. in the current context of economic and social crisis, our action must be directed towards providing aid to those who need it. we all know that the priority must be to protect eu citizens from the effects of globalisation and economic recession. i believe that the union can make a significant contribution to combating the effects of the economic crisis and reducing unemployment among its citizens. i would like to draw attention to the fact that eu member states can and should make use of the support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund. in this context, i want to point out that my country, romania, is an example of solidarity in the european union, in crisis situations, whether we are talking about greece, the netherlands, etc. as a confirmation of the fact that we are together a big family: the family of united europe.
in writing. − given that it is important for all small distilleries to participate in the monopoly and that the transition to the market must continue, and that the reports submitted do not demonstrate any infringement of the competition rules in the single market, i consider that the period of extension of the monopoly should have ended at the latest in 2013, the date of entry into force of the new cap.
in writing. − i welcome the approval in the european parliament of the draft decision renewing the agreement on cooperation with ukraine in the field of science and technology. the importance of these areas for economic and social development is recognised both in the european union and in ukraine through cooperation in various areas of common interest: environment and climate change, health, green energy, information society, industry and agriculture, etc. access to research infrastructure, as well as bilateral and multilateral exchanges of experience between researchers from union countries and ukraine, can contribute to increasing the financial efficiency of the projects carried out, thus reducing duplication of effort and resources. the ukrainian academic community needs to seriously assess its competitive advantages in working with the eu and use european funds as a means of developing strengths and not just as an alternative source of funding. cooperation in science is undoubtedly a key element of the european research area and will pave the way to access to global networks in the field.
in writing. − cooperation between the european union and jordan in the field of scientific and technological cooperation is one of the priorities of the eu-mediterranean cooperation through the european neighbourhood policy and the eu strategy for strengthening relations with neighbouring countries and is closely aligned with the jordanian government's executive programme on promoting a sustainable socio-economic reform process in the country. i consider it beneficial for the two parties to cooperate in joint research, technological development and demonstration activities in various areas of common interest, the results of which will be used in accordance with their common economic and social interests.
in writing. − i consider that precise regulation on the minimum rate of vat is necessary, since the transitional provision on the 15% rate is to be extended again. i also think we should be more concerned that more and more eu governments are resorting to raising vat to the ceiling to meet the challenges of the economic crisis. it is a measure that proves the lack of viable solutions and that suffocates the economy and the citizens. in this connection, i would urge, with a view to the adoption of a definitive system of tax harmonisation, that overtaxation be avoided.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that the european union needs a new strategy on vat. through it, the eu must aim to reduce red tape and remove financial obstacles to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. i also believe that the extension of the transitional provision on the minimum vat rate until 31 december 2015 can prevent structural imbalances in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report for 2009. the ecb continued its policy since 2008, targeting an inflation rate close to 2%, while increasing liquidity in markets. the ecb therefore adjusted the interest rates to 1% and continued the unconventional measures introduced in 2008 throughout 2009. the five key elements of increased credit support were the full allotment of funds at a fixed rate, the extension of the collateral pool, longer maturities for refinancing operations, the provision of liquidity in foreign currency and the support of the financial market through a controlled but substantial programme of covered bond purchases. rigorous coordination with national governments in eu countries on their own programmes is needed, especially in view of the crises that have hit greece and now ireland, and the bleak prospect of their spreading.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european central bank annual report 2009, as it proposes a number of measures that could be beneficial for the european union economy. these include a permanent mechanism to defend the euro area against speculative attacks, the supervision of the activities of current credit rating agencies and the consideration of a possible european credit rating agency. as rapporteur for my political group, i also highlighted the limitations of the stability and growth pact in its current form. the pact should be complemented by an alert system to strengthen the coordination of economic policies within the european union.
in writing. − it is becoming clear that internal and external security are increasingly interdependent and, in these circumstances, the development of policies and capacities for crisis management, conflict prevention is, in fact, an investment in the security of the citizens of the european union. the european external action service should be a key factor in developing a truly comprehensive european approach to european-level civil and military crisis management, conflict prevention, and providing the eu with sufficient structures, human and financial resources to meet its global responsibilities. the establishment of the eeas requires the transfer of the csdp structures, including the crisis management and planning directorate, the civilian planning and leadership capability, the eu staff and the situation centre, under the umbrella of the eeas, to the authority and direct responsibility of the high representative for foreign affairs. it is his direct duty to ensure that these structures are integrated and function coherently. to stimulate the development of the eu's comprehensive approach, close collaboration is needed between the eeas and all other relevant units within the commission, in particular those dealing with development, humanitarian aid, civil protection and public health issues.
in writing. − it is desirable that the establishment of the european external action service (eeas) contributes to the development of a truly comprehensive european approach to european civil and military crisis management, conflict prevention and peacebuilding, providing the eu with sufficient structures, human and financial resources to fulfil its global responsibilities under the un charter. as the un security council has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, close cooperation between the eu and the un is needed in the field of civilian and military crisis management, in particular in the field of relief operations, in which the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (unocha) has a leading role. it is also desirable to strengthen this cooperation, particularly in those areas where one organisation is to take over the responsibilities of the other, especially in the light of the contradictory experience in kosovo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr rapkay's report because i support, among other things, the extension of the deadline for the closure of non-competitive coal mines. in this respect, i believe that efforts will be made to avoid a massive loss of jobs, with romania, spain and germany being the eu countries most affected by the new regulation. i consider that the closure of non-competitive mines must be carried out in accordance with the closure plan, unless they will not become profitable by the deadline set. i would encourage the granting of degressive aid to cover production losses in the context of a well-defined plan for closing mines. as of 1 january 2011, half of the existing mines in romania will be included in a closure plan. in this context, i believe that aid will have to be directed more towards covering social and environmental consequences.
in writing. − i have chosen to vote in favour of the bernhard rapkay report on 'state aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines'. it proposes to postpone the closure of uncompetitive coal mines by four years: from 2014, as originally envisaged in the european commission's proposal, to 2018. the report also encourages the european commission to develop a strategy for the retraining of workers affected by these closures. we have to take into account that certain regions of the european union are completely dependent on the mining sector economically and socially, among them the jiu valley in romania. the mining sector provides jobs for 100,000 people in the european union.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that uncompetitive coal mines should be able to benefit from the contribution of state aid, since the absence of such aid would lead to their closure and, therefore, to massive redundancies and very serious social problems. the transitional period granted for the making of these mines profitable or their closure is important and has the role of, on the one hand, achieving the vocational retraining of the population involved in the coal industry and, on the other hand, achieving a gradual transition to less polluting energy sources.
in writing. − the expiry of the coal industry regulation on 31 december 2010 would have forced some member states to close their shale mines. i voted to extend this regulation until 31 december 2030, as opposed to 31 december 2026 as proposed by the european commission. unfortunately, this amendment did not receive the required majority. however, the point that the sharp downward trend in the total amount of closure aid granted by a member state is being reduced was supported. the commission has also concluded that the measures under assessment are in line with the meip and the meip-compliant benchmark. the deadline resulting from the majority vote was 31 december 2018. i would point out that this deadline obtained for subsidy operations is nevertheless an achievement of the european parliament which extends by 4 years the original deadline of 2014 proposed by the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the measures contained in it will, if approved by the council, avoid serious social consequences in many of the member states of the european union. the deadline proposed by the european commission is too short and unrealistic, which is why it was necessary to extend the subsidies for the production of pig iron until 2018. romania, my home member state, has experience of the scale of such a social challenge and i believe that the extension of the deadline is necessary and welcome.
in writing. − the ep opinion on the proposed regulation extends the deadline for subsidising coal production until 31 december 2018 (by 4 years more than the commission proposal) and concerns only huila. the coal sector provides jobs for about 100 000 people. the mines relying on operating aid are mainly located in the ruhr area of germany, in north-western spain and in the jiu valley of romania. the commission notes that the romanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the long-term viability of the company. the commission notes that the 2014 date (proposed by the commission) for the closure plan is arbitrary and not justified by the impact assessment carried out by the eu executive itself. the 2018 guidelines provide for the establishment of a european union-wide monitoring and evaluation system for the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. the rapporteur is in favour of a gradual reduction of the aid, the annual reduction must not be below 10% of the aid granted in the first year and only on the basis of a closure plan which is very well monitored. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is very important that the measures provided for in the stockholm programme are actually implemented in order to improve the area of freedom, security and justice. this can be done by improving judicial cooperation between member states, by promoting a european judicial culture, by addressing the various problems of incompatibility between the various procedural law models that exist at member state level. the commission's action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme must take account of all these aspects identified in the report.
in writing. − the report addresses a highly important issue, namely how the eu responds to the legal needs of citizens and businesses, in particular crossborder civil and commercial litigation. i regret, however, that i have not found any reference in the report to the actions required to inform citizens or company directors of the possibilities offered by european law for the protection of their interests in judicial proceedings. these possibilities are not sufficiently known and, consequently, not sufficiently exploited. attention to magistrates and lawyers is important, but it does not guarantee full access to this information for citizens.
it is clear that member states are going through a difficult period from a budgetary point of view. on the other hand, it has been very clear that the european budget has made a major contribution to the development of all member states, including the net contributors. it is surprising that the failure of the conciliation was not due to a disagreement on figures but to a refusal to discuss in practice the common future of the member states, the future of europe. parliament does not want to go beyond its powers, it wants to respect the treaty and protect the future interests of the citizens who elected it. what are the talking points that were rejected by the council? the involvement of the european parliament in the preparation of the mff is a treaty provision, it was done in 2006 and i do not think that the 2007-2013 budget was bad for the union, on the contrary. flexibility - a mechanism that has been used effectively so far and benefited all member states. own resources - the budgetary situation of the member states should be the reason for finding stable ways of financing the european budget, which no longer jeopardise the implementation of european policies. the new responsibilities in the treaty and strategy 2020 need funding. it is unacceptable that the same institution, the council, should set targets for 2020 and at the same time not approve the financial means to meet these requirements. i think we're obligated to come to an agreement. we have a responsibility to the citizens - we must not diminish confidence in the european institutions!
in writing. today we are in a stalemate that actually goes beyond the 2011 budgetary procedure and is a watershed moment that will define the future of the union and serve as a precedent for future budgetary procedures and the role of the european parliament. the parliament's grievances are not absurd and in practice we only want the role assigned to parliament by the treaty to be respected. parliament has made many concessions in these negotiations and we are still being asked to make many more. i hope, however, that we will get through this moment and, in the interests of the citizens, that we will be able to vote on the new budget in the december part-session.
president of the commission. − mr president, today i have the honour of presenting the commission work programme for 2011. the presentation marks a beginning and an end. on the one hand, the work programme intervenes and launches a new phase of very important political work. on the other hand, the adoption of the programme is the conclusion of the enhanced structured dialogue, which was opened with the state of the union debate in september here in this parliament. the preparations leading to this year’s commission work programme have indeed been a ‘première’, and in my opinion a very successful one. by advancing the implementation of our revised framework agreement, we have been able to engage in in-depth discussions on the political priorities for the coming years. throughout this fruitful process i have been encouraged by the large degree of convergence on the overall direction and on concrete initiatives. it is a process which has acted to consolidate what i have called ‘a special partnership’. european action must focus on those challenges where the eu can bring a tangible added value. the 40 strategic initiatives which the commission commits to present in 2011 reflect the main political priorities that we have identified together. for the sake of transparency, the programme moreover includes 150 other proposals which the commission is working on. sustaining economic recovery and securing our societies for the future remains the overarching priority in 2011. our efforts will continue along three main tracks: strengthening governance, completing financial sector reform and accelerating our implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. long-term growth must be based on a sound macro-economic foundation. through initiating the so-called ‘european semester’, and the follow-up to our proposals of 29 september, we will reinforce the european fiscal framework and broaden macro-economic surveillance to prevent imbalances. an ambitious financial sector reform is already well under way and important legislation has been accomplished. in 2011, the commission will table the remaining pieces of regulation. key priorities, such as transparency and consumer protection, will be pursued, while a bank crisis framework will aim to prevent and tackle future crises. the commission will seek to support parliament and the council in reaching agreement on the complete reform before the end of 2011. europe must keep pace, focusing on our comparative advantages in this 21st century of globalisation. when competitors are cheaper, we must be smarter. as an example of action at european level, we will develop a more integrated european standardisation system as an important platform for sharpening the competitive edge of our companies, particularly smes. for europe to remain competitive and secure more and better jobs, the transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient society must be carefully planned. therefore, bringing together the policies on climate change, energy, transport and environment will be a priority. a particular focus in 2011 will be on energy efficiency. adapting to a dynamic economic reality also means ensuring a high level of protection of workers’ rights in close cooperation with social partners. key proposals on posting of workers and working time will be developed and tabled in 2011. meanwhile, the revision of the state aid rules applicable to services of general interest will be a tangible step towards establishing a quality framework which takes account of the particular nature of these services. with the single market act, the commission has launched an ambitious process to make the single market deliver on its full potential. our companies should focus on business, not bureaucracy. not least smes are often overburdened or indeed discouraged from pursuing otherwise promising cross-border projects. as a concrete example, by clarifying the rules on collectively managed copyrights we can simplify the current framework conditions, encourage further cross-border activity and release important job-creating potential – not least in the promising digital sector. on the demand side, a priority will be to strengthen consumer confidence with our proposal on alternative dispute resolution as an important instrument to speed up the often much too slow process of resolving consumer problems. whether we act as consumers, as workers, as students, as travellers or in any other of the multiple roles we fulfil in modern, everyday life, it is when we experience new opportunities, a reduction in risks or improvements in the quality of life that the european union makes sense. this is a european union at the service of the citizens. the ambition of making the eu a tangible reality for citizens must go beyond the single market. strengthening security should always be a means of helping citizens to benefit from the opportunities of the european union, never an end in itself. our proposal for ‘smart borders’ will facilitate travelling in and out of the eu while deterring irregular immigration. to keep europe open we will also take action against those that try to exploit our economic system for illegal purposes, while the framework for data protection will respond to a very real concern of citizens in the internet age. the union must play a role in the world that matches its economic weight, so we must ensure coherence in our external action. as such, the work programme announces concrete action to project our 2020 objectives for jobs and growths internationally. we will also modernise our development policy and humanitarian aid. those in the world in need really need a stronger europe in the world. before concluding, i would like to briefly explain what you will not find in the commission work programme and why. as announced, we will submit the proposal for the next multiannual financial framework by mid-2011. the specific financial instruments and programmes will be presented in the second half of 2011 in conjunction with the overall framework. to maintain the political nature of the work programme, implementation work as a rule has not been included. the same applies for international negotiations, as their conclusion depends on third parties. meanwhile, these activities remain an important part of our core business. we will continue to deliver and to pursue our dialogue with you on them. in my introduction i noted that the work programme was not only the conclusion of our fruitful dialogue, but also the beginning of a next step in our concrete efforts to steer the european union out of the crisis and beyond. now is the time to maintain momentum. we need to find ways to collectively accelerate our work. i therefore take this opportunity to encourage parliament and the council to engage in trilateral discussions on how to implement the treaty provisions on union programming. in the commission’s view, this could translate into agreements to move forward quicker in negotiations on selected initiatives of particular importance to attaining our political objectives. such a concerted effort would demonstrate our determination to deliver concrete, timely responses in the face of the crisis which has shaken us all. europe’s citizens would expect this. i believe the european union institutions should respond to citizens’ concerns. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, times are hard for the european economy and for the european project as a whole. we have been devising big strategies such as the climate package, the energy package and the 2020 strategy: schemes after schemes. we still do not seem to know where we want to go and what we want to be. why am i saying this? because wanting to be the best is not sufficient to be the best. the reality is that we are adopting strategies we do not all believe in. no one – or almost no one – is implementing them and no one is ready to finance them. it seems we have too many strategies and a lack of interest in making them a reality. and this is why i believe it is time to get back to the basics of what made the european project possible and brought us together: simple natural things. the single market should be our big scheme and we should put all our effort into enforcing it, because if we want to be competitive on the world stage, we need more economic integration. the only reasonable way to achieve this is through the single market. i welcome the commission work programme, and specifically your proposal on the single market act. but that is not enough. you have the monetary report. you know what is needed – to encourage investment, attract capital and boldly cut bureaucratic expenses. we should focus on simple things which have an obvious impact on europe’s competitiveness, such as resource efficiency, cutting energy costs, reforming the agriculture policy, and the future of transport. the commission and parliament must work hand in hand and ensure that these means match our will. we are therefore looking forward to an ambitious multiannual financial framework proposal in 2011. do we need more regulation to tackle the financial crisis? yes, but only if the aim is to foster europe’s competitiveness. in any case we should avoid adopting an autistic response to the crisis, hoping that the rest of the world will follow. if the message we are sending to our citizens and to the world is not that the eu is a pragmatic association of ideas, capital and values, we will not become the global player we want to be. instead of influencing policies in the world, we will be affected by them. now a word on the european semester. the commission is best placed to identify our strengths and weaknesses when planning work. but you should be careful, because what you are proposing to eu citizens and member states is that they should believe that brussels knows better, and that politicians in brussels are closer to the citizen’ interests than an mp from their constituency. it is a difficult job, and you will commit on this through policy coordination in 2011. i hope you will succeed in proving this, in boosting growth and jobs – not for some but for all. otherwise, we will witness the rise of real anti-europeanism. i wish you good luck.
european citizens expect the european institutions to focus on job creation and social europe in 2011. as vice-president of the committee on transport and tourism, i regret that you have postponed the white paper on the future of european transport for 2011. this document is essential both for the future financial perspective and for the future of cohesion policy, which we have already begun to discuss. from the 2011 work programme, i stress the importance of legislative initiatives on: the protection of personal data, improving the security of information and networks through standards and recommendations for public procurement, electronic signature and mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication mechanisms. these initiatives are absolutely necessary for the implementation of the digital agenda and the completion of the internal market, including in the area of services. we also look forward to the legislative initiative on smart energy networks. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i would conclude by saying that the digital agenda and energy efficiency, areas that contribute both to job creation and to the competitiveness of the european union, together with social europe, should be our main priorities for 2011.
this debate is particularly timely as the eu's economic recovery has remained fragile and member states still face a deteriorating labour market situation. this is why it is necessary for european society to become a knowledge-based society. the eu must ensure that demand and supply of labour are better matched and that the labour force has the skills to fill the new jobs created. as regards romania, the latest commission monitoring report shows that the labour market has stabilised since the beginning of 2010. however, recovery cannot be accompanied immediately by a reduction in unemployment, and young romanians remain, unfortunately, one of the most affected groups. over 20% of them are out of work. in this respect, i consider the european commission's instrument to be a useful one, with the major objective of increasing the participation of young people in the labour market.
the main concern of european citizens is to keep their jobs. the economic and financial crisis has pushed unemployment to 10 percent and among young people to 20 percent. young people and people over 50 face difficulties in finding a job and are often forced to accept temporary contracts or work below their qualifications. the agenda for new jobs and skills must be linked to the union's industrial and innovation policy. to preserve the union's competitiveness, we must develop the capacity for innovation, but also recreate the capacity for production and, by implication, jobs in the european union. clearly, the eco-efficient economy requires new skills. i'm drawing attention to the high dropout rate. because of the economic crisis, more and more young people are unable to attend high school or college. education guarantees young people a future and that is why we have a duty to guarantee young people access to education.
member of the commission. − i am very happy that the fundamental principles of this flagship initiative to boost and improve employment in europe and finally reach an ambitious target by 2020 have been welcomed. we are, of course, open to discussing the various details now and at a later stage. i would like to address some of the points that have been discussed or perhaps even challenged in the discussion, because some of them need further explanation. first of all, we maintain the concept of flexicurity, but this does not mean that we want to put the emphasis only on flexibility, in which case we would use this concept the way it was used before. i would like to give you some examples where there is clearly a reflection of the current times and a reflection of the new challenges. we are definitely making this initiative more age-conscious, and when we speak about life-long learning, we want to put a greater emphasis on the life-long learning opportunities of older workers, because we have to assume that active working life is becoming longer and people will have to be assisted more with career changes or career developments. we have to have a better focus on young people, which is clearly a key consideration for europe 2020. but a separate flagship initiative – ‘youth on the move’ – already exists, where most of the initiatives and strategies in connection with the young generation are outlined in very concrete terms. youth is the age group where we do not want to push for a greater level of flexibility, because there is already enough. there is more flexibility for young workers in europe than in the united states. we want to facilitate more mobility, because we believe that the young generation is the one that can better take advantage of the integrated european labour market and develop their own skills and improve their competitiveness through taking advantage not only of the market itself but also of the institutions that the european union provides. what i spoke about was better working conditions and quality jobs. i regret that ms schroedter did not understand it perfectly. we want to address segmentation as a major challenge of the current european labour market, and we put forward a very concrete example: the open-ended contract, which can help. it is not about removing people from permanent contracts, it is helping those who so far only had a chance to have a short-term or fixed-term contract to have an open-ended one and build up their rights. this will help, to some extent, to provide more jobs, but it will definitely help to provide more rights. this is also very important if we want to speak about quality jobs. when we speak about investing in human capital, we should not forget that the european social fund is there to support all these initiatives in all member states, and we hope that it will remain a robust instrument of the eu in supporting all these initiatives on employment and social inclusion. these are initiatives for 10 years and for all member states. it is not about addressing short-term emergency financial situations in certain member states. we cannot assume that all the 10 years will be spent amidst financial emergencies. this is obviously not a policy that can be so specific as to address this situation, but it does apply to greece and to ireland. it is clear that greece is one of the countries where more flexibility could help to boost the business investment climate, as is the case with spain. ireland is a country which could rebalance competitiveness factors and have a greater focus on investing in skills and education, as opposed to other sources of competitiveness that have been extensively used recently. we must, of course, pay attention to the very critical situation we are in at this moment, and maybe next year there will be little chance of increasing the level of employment. but we also have to look at the overall picture, which will start to improve from the first half of next year, because the major economies driving the recovery forward are already experiencing job growth. we believe that, despite the disturbances in the financial sector, this process will continue and the european policies which we have put forward, although not being able to micromanage job creation in the member states, will create the right framework and provide guidance for the member states to continue working towards full employment.
in writing. the current economic crisis and structural factors such as globalisation, technological progress, an ageing population and the transition to a low-carbon economy have demonstrated the need to adapt european employment policies and have challenged the community institutions to come up with relevant solutions to increase unemployment and fight poverty. the commission's eu 2020 initiative is thus the european union's response to the challenges posed by this economic context and the economic and social changes in the labour market. i would like to stress the importance of achieving the two objectives that the commission has mentioned in this initiative, namely to get out of the economic crisis, using as leverage the improvement of skills and ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy in the long term, anticipating future needs and ensuring a match between the supply and demand of skills in the labour market. europe needs to develop its competitiveness in an increasingly competitive international environment. skills are a key element in overcoming the crisis and allowing european citizens to improve their living standards. i welcome this initiative which encourages the exchange of information and the participation of member states in discussions with a view to identifying solutions or practices that support the creation of new jobs.
given that the energy-climate change package already imposes certain targets on member states on reducing polluting emissions and increasing energy efficiency, i would like to ask you what measures are you taking to support companies in the energy-intensive industrial sectors to modernise their installations so that they become more energy-efficient and less polluting?
member of the commission. − we can disagree on certain principles of taxation, which is always a rather sensitive matter. the biggest support for the ccctb comes from businesses; we have clear evidence of this. i understand this because, when dealing with 27 different member states with 27 different corporate tax systems, it is really a mess for them. concerning foreign direct investment, if we are able to agree on this proposal, we have to do so unanimously. if we are able to agree, this will facilitate foreign direct investment because foreign investors who want to invest, not in one member state but in several, will be able to deal with one corporate tax system instead of several corporate tax systems, and that is a big advantage for foreign investors. throughout bilateral discussions with potential investors, they really emphasise the issue of 27 corporate tax systems as an impediment to facilitating foreign direct investment. finally, when we are talking about the common consolidated corporate tax base, we are not talking about tax rates. it is clear that this has nothing to do with the sovereignty of member states in deciding tax matters because, even within the ccctb environment, they will be able to decide on corporate tax rates, based on their needs, their social systems, public services and so on. so the proposal itself does not reduce the sovereignty of member states in tax matters.
president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to speak on behalf of - if i understand correctly - lady ashton, our high representative. the european union continues to monitor day by day, through its delegation in beijing and its bilateral embassies, the situation of mr liu xiaobo, nobel peace prize laureate, and his wife, liu xia, as well as that of their friends and lawyers. their situation is constantly being taken into account. we are concerned and disappointed by the house arrest of ms liu xia and of many human rights defenders in china since 8 october, and we condemn it. as you know, the european union did not wait for mr liu xiaobo to receive this prestigious award to remind the chinese government of its international commitments to respect freedom of expression. and in this particular case, the european union has always considered charter 08 to be a peaceful manifesto, calling for greater respect for human rights in china. the union has issued four public statements since december 2008 calling for liu xiaobo's release. our position could not have been different when the nobel committee announced its decision on 8 october, quite independently, i should remind you. we congratulated liu xiaobo through the high representative of the union for foreign affairs, lady ashton, and through the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, and we reiterated the importance we attach to his release. we regret that the chinese authorities have not heeded the calls which the international community is making all the more urgently. it is regrettable that the european union has to take note, once again with concern, of the intimidation and house arrest of liu xiaobo's wife, ms liu xia, for the past six weeks. we deplore with equal force the threats, surveillance and bans on leaving the country, as well as the detention, which have been applied to many of liu xiaobo's relatives since he was awarded the nobel prize. madam president, the european union will continue with steadfastness and determination the efforts it has made for almost two years now to secure the release of liu xiaobo and to enable him to exercise his rights fully and to contribute, as he wishes, to the public debate he has initiated in china through charter 08. we continue to hope that he will be able to receive the nobel peace prize in person on 10 december. we call on china to end the restrictions on freedom of movement and expression imposed on his wife, liu xia, and many of mr liu xiaobo's friends.
member of the commission. - madam president, mr minister, members of the european parliament, the commission fully supports the belgian presidency's statement. the european union has repeatedly reiterated that it considers charter 08 to be a legitimate exercise of freedom of expression and, as the presidency has just noted, the european union has repeatedly reiterated its grave concern about liu xiaobo's arrest, trial and imprisonment. both president barroso and the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union, cathy ahston, welcomed the award of the nobel peace prize to liu xiaobo on 8 october. the commission nevertheless regrets that the chinese authorities have reacted in this way by placing his wife, ms liu xia, under house arrest and restricting the freedom of movement of many of her friends. the commission reiterates its call on china to release liu xiaobo from prison immediately and to lift the house arrest of his wife and all restrictions on the freedom of movement of his friends. the commission, as stated by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union, cathy ahston, in her statement, hopes that liu xiaobo will be able to receive the 2010 nobel peace prize in person in oslo.
on behalf of the epp group. ten months ago, in this very room, i said that the chinese government's 11-year sentence against liu xiaobo for merely expressing his opinions is a symptom of the intensifying campaign by the chinese authorities against human rights defenders. now, awarding the nobel prize to liu xiaobo is, i think, the appropriate measure to highlight that although china has made great progress in the economic and sometimes social realms, the real mark of progress is respect for human rights. a country can be admired for its economic achievements. but it will not gain the respect of other countries if it restricts freedom instead of protecting it. and the actions by which the chinese government has tried to intimidate the countries invited to attend the ceremony - these actions are absolutely worrying, as is the fact that some countries have given in to this blackmail. we are dealing with an unacceptable situation because a country is positioning itself in international relations against one of its own citizens and, in fact, china would gain, as i said, the respect of others if now instead of these threats to other countries it would allow liu xiaobo to come to oslo to receive his prize. but the chinese authorities' attitude seems to be much tougher than the soviets' attitude, because it's possible that not even a family member or liu xiaobo's lawyer will be able to get to oslo. i therefore welcome lech walesa's initiative to symbolically represent the chinese dissident in oslo, but i hope that at the last moment the chinese authorities will decide to release liu xiaobo.
first of all, i would like to welcome the commitment expressed by the commission in its recent communication to continue the process of simplifying the common agricultural policy. too many rules means less competition, and too much rigidity means less functionality. one of the reasons why the cap is now being reformed is undoubtedly the need to simplify it. i would like to point out some of the very important points in the resolution on simplification of the common agricultural policy adopted by this parliament. my colleague michel dantin referred to those countries which go too far in applying european legislation. i believe it is imperative to reduce bureaucratic red tape to the bare minimum, not only at european level but also at member state level. the commission should consider the possibility of common regulations on the required documentation (i would call such a recommendation: the maximum tolerable level of bureaucracy). it is well known that where the european bureaucracy asks for three signatures for approval, the national bureaucracies come in and add five more. only those rules and conditions which are relevant and absolutely necessary and of undisputed utility should remain in force. simplification is not enough, it is also necessary to extend training and information to potential beneficiaries. a substantial part of rural development funds, for example, should be mandatory for such actions. because simplification is directly linked to transparency, i take advantage of the commissioner's presence in the plenary to ask him a question out of context: in view of the recent decision of the european court of justice on the beneficiaries of the european agricultural funds, what measures does the commission envisage to ensure that information on them is still published?
at european level, there is much talk about simplifying the common agricultural policy, but our farmers still complain about the administrative problems they face when accessing funds or when applying european legislation. not only the commission, but also the member states must take steps to simplify the bureaucracy of the common agricultural policy. i think it is essential that the implementation of european agricultural legislation in the member states be done in such a way that farmers are not discouraged from continuing agricultural practices. many farmers in my country complain that they are not well informed, that it is difficult for them to start a business in this sector, or that it is very difficult to access funds in the agricultural sector. i would like to ask the commission to continue to encourage member states to make more efficient use of technology to provide farmers with better information and to reduce the administrative burden faced by the sector. i also hope that the new common agricultural policy will be simpler, more transparent and fairer.
the united nations food and agriculture organization released a report last week that showed that mankind is dangerously close to another global food crisis. he therefore called on farmers to increase production, especially of wheat and corn, and to replenish food stocks in 2012. global food demand will continue to grow in the future and the union should be able to contribute to meeting global food demand. it is therefore essential that union agriculture maintain and improve its production capacity. small, medium-sized and family farms in particular need simpler and more accessible instruments from both the subsidy and direct payments point of view in order to attract them to the market. the key to long-term food security is to stimulate investment in agriculture, in particular by simplifying the bureaucracy faced by farmers. to this end, it is important to ensure that european farmers have easier access to favourable bank loans and subsidies for farmers. please support us, commissioner, in the revision of the energy taxation directive to achieve a reduced vat rate on electricity used for irrigation.
i would like to start by welcoming, as other colleagues have done, the commission's decision in september to approve the national apiculture programmes of the 27 member states for the period 2011-2013, and in particular the fact that the european union's contribution to the funding of these programmes has increased by 25% compared to the previous period. romania, their home member state, is among the main beneficiaries of these funds with some eur 3.4 million. the commission's decision is therefore extremely important for romanian beekeepers. i also welcome the initiative of the committee on agriculture and rural development to initiate this debate on such an important subject. i fully support the suggestions contained in the motion for a resolution which we shall be voting on thursday. beekeeping provides jobs for many european families, even in areas where other activities are not as well developed. beekeeping also brings economic development to rural areas and in this context i would like to stress that it is important not only for honey producers but also for small processors to be the focus of european support programmes, especially under the current pillar ii of the common agricultural policy. honey processing and packaging lines provide competitive advantages in terms of market access, quality and consumer attractiveness of the products. last but not least, beekeeping products are not only used for food consumption but also become ingredients in products, which is why we need to encourage solutions that allow the creation of high value-added products at local level. i regret that support for small processors is not in the motion for a resolution, because encouraging them is, in effect, encouraging those who are directly involved in the rearing of bees.
i would like to welcome the adoption of the new package of measures on strengthening budgetary discipline and extending economic surveillance. the proposed measures were considered necessary due to the differences in compliance with fiscal and budgetary policies between member states. as a result, the economic crisis has generated a worrying perception in several countries, including romania. i believe that the most important innovation is the creation of a new framework for macroeconomic surveillance. it will allow the detection of emerging imbalances and risks. the adoption of the report on economic governance by the task force chaired by mr van rompuy was an important step. its implementation will thus create a strong new framework for crisis management. i would also like to mention the importance of the regulation on ensuring that national budgets comply with eu tax standards. practically no national budget will be able to escape eu tax rules.
i appreciate that the report on economic governance represents a new starting point in organising a viable system of our functioning in this perspective. the report's recommendation on stronger institutions for more effective economic governance namely the creation at national level of a public institution to provide independent analysis, assessments and forecasts on domestic fiscal policy issues i consider to be the basis for the creation of a transparent system at european level. i appreciate that it is essential that each member state should be able to prove the basis of analysis and estimate for each tax measure proposed internally, so that an approach based on mutual trust and knowledge can be developed. i reaffirm the need for specific measures to enable sound and transparent economic governance, allowing for open debate on any measures taken internally in the member states which can have an impact at eu level.
member of the commission. − mr president, the g20 is definitely a very particular formation, where all decisions should be taken by consensus. but, as our president of the commission and the belgian president emphasised, the process is moving on and i will just address one of the issues, namely the taxation of the financial sector. even if there has not been a breakthrough, it was agreed to undertake further work on innovative financing under the french presidency. the european union stands ready to support work in the g20 to explore and develop a financial transaction tax at global level. as i said, the g20 works by consensus and many g20 partners do not, at this stage, share our view on the issue, but we will continue to work towards a consensus. in the meantime, we need to work on other ways of ensuring that the financial sector makes an equitable contribution through measures such as the financial activities tax. on 7 october 2010, the commission outlined its view on this issue and it will pursue the following objectives. firstly, we must ensure that the financial sector makes a fair contribution to public finances. this is particularly important given the support it received during the crisis. secondly, we must make sure that any tax we put forward offers real benefits and that it will raise substantial revenues without undermining eu competitiveness. thirdly, we must ensure that the patchwork of divergent national financial sector taxes does not create new obstacles to the single market. on this basis, the commission has set out a two-pronged approach to financial sector taxation. a financial activities tax appears the best way to deal with the issue in the eu. taxing the profits and wages of the financial sector could ensure that it is taxed fairly, while also generating much-needed revenues. in addition, a financial activities tax could be less prone to the risks to eu competitiveness that other taxation tools would pose if introduced unilaterally. a financial transaction tax should be promoted at global level. an international transaction tax on the globalised financial sector is the best way to fund international objectives in areas such as development aid and climate change. with the right choice of tax and its proper implementation, we could have an important new source of revenues while still maintaining our competitiveness. the commission aims to continue to work on these options in order to bring forward policy initiatives in 2011. the first step will be an impact assessment on financial sector taxation covering the ideas we have set out. in this respect, we will also take account of member states’ analysis. the assessment of the cumulative impact on the financial sector institutions of new regulation, possible bank levies and taxes will be important before launching any proposal. from my side, i would also mention something that is very important: the g20 very clearly took development policy objectives into its agenda. i believe it is a good sign that the g20 process, with proper determination on the part of the european union, could deliver benefits in the interest of citizens.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a conclusion to this debate, first of all in general terms, i would like to say again how clearly we had in mind, on the eve of the g20 meetings, that it was in the union's interest to reach an acceptable result on many issues and that we had to ensure that the g20 remained first and foremost a credible and legitimate forum, capable of producing concrete results, as i said earlier, and of giving a coordinated political impetus to globalisation so that the union, in particular, could make its voice heard in this context. i think, without concealing the difficulties - and many of you have referred to these difficulties - that the union has fulfilled its role and that the work of the european institutions and the countries of the union participating in these g20 discussions can be considered satisfactory. seoul was the fifth summit in two years and many collective commitments were put on the table. many of them have produced positive effects for economic growth, global financial stability even though it's true that the work is far from finished. within the union, and in the light of what the commission has just explained to us on bank withdrawals and the financial transaction tax, it is clear that the conclusions of the european council of 29 october indicate that work on these two issues must continue, both at the internal level of the union and on international issues. on the question of levying, there is a growing consensus on the basis and spirit of such levying. there is still no consensus on the purpose or use of the proceeds. in the meantime, member states are putting in place national systems which differ considerably from each other and therefore, in the short term, it is necessary to introduce a minimum degree of coordination and, in the medium term, to move towards a resolution framework which should harmonise resolution structures much better, in particular on the commission's legislative proposals. on this basis, the october european council concluded that the various existing levy schemes should be further coordinated and the ecofin council was invited to come back with conclusions for the december european council. finally, as regards the financial transaction tax now raised by the commission, the european council asked the council, and therefore ecofin, to examine how the various options for preventing tax havens and tax evasion could be envisaged today, and the ecofin council instructed the council's high level group on taxation to examine these issues.
in writing. – our international institutional economic and financial architecture – dating from the end of the war – is currently under strong pressure. a profoundly changing international system and the world crisis are stretching it to the limit, forcing it to adapt itself to the new circumstances. moreover, new institutions such as the g20 are being created to respond to these. however, this is essentially an intergovernmental organism whose decisions, which affect us all, have to be implemented nationally. this is why it is important that its decisions take into account the interests not only of its members but of us all. from that perspective, it is encouraging to see that the seoul summit stressed cooperation and collaboration between members, thus guaranteeing the implementation of decisions, and that there was an indication of resolution in making fundamental structural alterations and encouragement of growth through job creation, without losing sight of the needs of the developing world. let us hope that the eu as such will benefit from the decisions of a body in which only some of its members are participating and that those which are outside the euro zone will benefit too.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr watson's recommendation because the conclusion of the protocol offers the republic of moldova new opportunities to join community programmes of interest. the gradual opening up of eu programmes and agencies to the countries included in the european neighbourhood policy will encourage reform and modernisation efforts in these countries. this will promote cooperation with the eu in important areas such as customs, transport or competitiveness. i believe that the participation of the republic of moldova in these initiatives will contribute to the alignment of national policies with european ones. it will also give impetus to the negotiation process for the signing of the new association agreement, where satisfactory progress has already been made. i also welcome the council's intention to continue to provide macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova and to provide expertise to the government of chisinau. as also indicated in the european commission's progress report, the republic of moldova has made considerable efforts to effectively implement structural reforms in line with eu recommendations. in addition, the european integration platform of the current government has created an unprecedented dynamic in relations with the eu. the intensification of the republic of moldova's participation in community programmes and agencies is therefore a natural step in the process of convergence to european standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol, which will allow the republic of moldova to participate more closely in certain community programmes, providing an opportunity to promote cooperation in the fields of culture, education, the environment and technical and scientific cooperation, as well as to strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and to accelerate negotiations on the new association agreement. political stability and democratic development are essential elements for the comprehensive implementation of the protocol and facilitating the conclusion of all necessary mous. the current constitutional impasse in the republic of moldova is therefore a cause for concern that needs to be addressed promptly and effectively. it is essential that the republic of moldova continues to implement the enp action plan and the reforms set out in the 'rethink moldova' document. the holding of elections, as provided for in the constitution, is essential for the future stability and prosperity of the republic of moldova and for the development of its relations with the eu.
in writing. − the republic of moldova's aspirations for and preparation for a european path within the union are facilitated by the existence of the eu-republic of moldova partnership and cooperation agreement, which is included in the european neighbourhood policy. i welcome the participation of the republic of moldova in certain community programmes, which allows the promotion of cooperation in areas such as culture, education, environment and technical and scientific cooperation, as well as the strengthening of political relations through the eastern partnership and the acceleration of the negotiations on the new association agreement.
in writing. − i have always sustained and encouraged the european goals of the republic of moldova. i believe in strong cooperation with a country that proved recently that is ready to follow a european path. participation in certain community programmes for moldova will encourage this neighbour country to implement its reforms, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, in addition to the reinforcing of political relations through the eastern partnership and the negotiation of the new association agreement. i endorse the recommendation of graham watson, because it promotes moldova’s participation in several european community programmes and agencies, to support the neighbouring country’s efforts to reform and modernise.
in writing. − in order to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the countries in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union, including the republic of moldova, the main measure is the progressive opening up of certain community programmes, institutions and agencies to the participation of partner countries in the european neighbourhood policy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union should support the republic of moldova and facilitate its access to certain community programmes. this will promote good cooperation between the union and the republic of moldova in various fields such as economic, scientific, cultural and educational.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation, as did the majority of the parliament, which i welcome, as it is a strong signal to support and encourage the pro-european orientation of the republic of moldova. this state, on the border of the european union, will not be able to break the current impasse without such messages to instill confidence in the moldovan citizens in the correctness of their european option, and the timing could not be better today, just a few days before the early parliamentary elections taking place in this country.
in writing. − within the european neighbourhood policy, the progressive opening of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of partner countries in the european neighbourhood policy is one of the many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood countries. in march 2008 it was decided to open negotiations with the republic of moldova, which have now been concluded. this proposal for a protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of the republic of moldova in several community programmes and agencies, such as those in the field of transport, food security, customs, aviation safety and others. i voted for this report because this initiative supports the reform and modernisation efforts of the eu's neighbour, the republic of moldova.
in writing. − in my capacity as epp shadow rapporteur on the eu-republic of moldova agreements, i warmly welcome the vote with an overwhelming majority in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the eu-republic of moldova partnership and cooperation agreement on the participation of the republic of moldova in the union’s programmes. even before the conclusion of an association agreement with the republic of moldova, the country is already being offered the legal opportunity to participate in eu internal programmes and agencies and thus continue its approximation to eu standards, particularly in such fields as transport, food safety, customs and aviation safety. on the eve of the parliamentary elections in the republic of moldova, the european parliament is sending a strong signal of support for the pro-european reforms in this neighbouring country and for the need to firmly pursue them. i am glad to conclude that the european parliament expressed cross-party unanimity at every stage of the examination of the issue in this house, thus shaping a single position on the need to conclude this protocol as soon as possible and hence offer the republic of moldova all possible opportunities to benefit from the advantages of its relations with the eu.
in writing. − increased access by patients to quality information about their treatment increases the chance that they will understand the decisions that affect them directly. so the intention is very good, but it needs to be part of a larger strategy of health education that focuses on the patient and not the drug company. there are many problems in the current legal framework and situation in europe with regard to patients' access to information on prescription-only medicines. different interpretations of the directive by member states provide patients in different parts of europe with different access to high-quality information on pharmaceutical products. in some member states it is difficult to access basic information on the prescribed medicinal product. this creates health inequalities. within seconds, patients have endless access to uncontrolled and often inaccurate information about prescription-only medicines through the internet. but they need access to controlled and secure information to avoid complicating matters further. it is therefore necessary to update the provisions on information on prescribed pharmaceutical products.
in writing. − i believe that patients need to have access to better information on prescription medicines, which requires objective information on the characteristics of the medicines and the diseases for which they are recommended, and the prevention of unsolicited information or disguised advertising.
in writing. − the information provided to patients should meet the following main characteristics: − reliability: the information provided to patients should be based on the latest scientific knowledge and there should be clear references to the sources from which this knowledge has been derived; - independence: it must be clear who provides and who funds the information, so that consumers can identify potential conflicts of interest; - information should be easily accessible to consumers and patient-oriented: it should be easy to understand and available, taking into account the specific needs of consumers (age, cultural differences and availability in all european languages). information on prescription medicines provided to patients should be part of a broader 'patient information' and 'health education' strategy. patients and all interested parties should be able to find accurate and objective information on healthy lifestyles, prevention of specific diseases and illnesses and treatment options. i therefore believe that this proposal should be complemented by a code of conduct on information to patients, drawn up in collaboration with patient organisations. this will help to make 'the voice of the patient' heard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because health issues are of particular interest to me, in particular equal access for patients to healthcare and information. in europe today, the level of information on medicines available on the market is very varied, i would even say unfair to patients. patients must have the right to accurate and complete information on medicines, and my colleague christofer fjellner's proposals have gone exactly in that direction, giving priority to the patient. the amendments made by the european parliament to the european commission's legislative proposal emphasise that companies that manufacture medicines must provide basic information such as product characteristics, labelling, the package leaflet and a publicly accessible version of the assessment report. however, in order to ensure the reliability of the information, i believe that the national authorities should strictly monitor the specialist websites that provide such details.
in writing. − there are many independent sources of evidence-based information on treatment options available in the european union. these resources take into account the cultural and contextual characteristics of the population, including the determinants of health. greater access to quality information will help to improve patients' health, as a well-informed patient is much more inclined to continue necessary treatment and is much more likely to understand the decisions made about his treatment. therefore, if the proposal is well formulated and implemented, it will create added value. the regulation in question does not take account of technical developments and the possibilities and challenges created by the internet. within seconds, patients in europe already have endless access to uncontrolled and often inaccurate information about prescription-only medicines. however, access to controlled and secure pharmaceutical information via the internet is very limited for most patients. this problem is particularly acute for people who need information in their mother tongue. the aim of the proposal can therefore not only be to harmonise european legislation but also to improve health by improving health-related knowledge.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency, as regards the provision of information to the general public on medicinal products for human use which are issued on medical prescription, so as to ensure in the future a community legal framework allowing european citizens equal access to accurate and clear information on medicinal products. the report presented by the commission on 20 december 2007 on 'current practices in the provision of medicinal product information to patients' shows that member states have adopted divergent rules and practices on the provision of medicinal product information, which has resulted in unequal access to this information by patients and the general public. european citizens have the right to accurate and clear information on medicines. i believe it is important that the regulation protects the interests of patients and ensures the use of modern means of communication to provide accurate, accessible and easily understandable information to the general public in a transparent manner and independent of the commercial interests of pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. − annually, about 9.3 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment (eee) are sold in the eu alone, the majority of which are large household appliances and it and telecommunications equipment. as the market continues to develop and innovation cycles become shorter, equipment replacement is accelerating, making waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) the fastest growing complex waste source, with the volume of new weee expected to increase to 12,3 million tonnes by 2020. the essential aspects of this reform of the directive are: - the open scope; - the distinction between rohs and reach; - the modification of the criteria for exemptions; - the criteria for deciding on the length of the exemption/grace periods; - codecision for future restrictions instead of comitology; - specific provisions on nanomaterials. i welcome the agreement on the first reading. i voted for this report because the new proposal for a directive is simpler, will give producers an easier tool to use when classifying their products under the directive and will take account of the socioeconomic impact linked to the protection of health and the environment when amending the criteria for exemptions.
in writing. − electronic equipment produces the fastest growing waste stream in europe, and reducing the carcinogenic and toxic substances from this waste stream must be a top priority. the open scope of the legislation, as recommended by the environment committee, is a much better approach than that proposed by the commission. a definitive list of specific products could exclude new products from the regulation, and we need to ensure that the legislation not only facilitates – but also keeps up with – innovation by industry. it is encouraging to see that several companies are now phasing out the use of some of these potentially harmful substances from their products. but we still need to adopt ambitious legislation which will encourage the rest of industry to follow the lead of others and to innovate in order to ensure better environmental protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the 'trade agreement against counterfeiting' proposed by the socialist and democrats group in the european parliament together with three other political groups of the european legislator. the resolution sought to respect fundamental freedoms and individual rights and to maintain free access to the internet. the resolution also sought to guarantee access to medicines in developing countries. it is regrettable that this resolution did not pass the vote in plenary, because the socialist position was in support of the interests of the european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) as it: 1. is fully in line with the community acquis; 2. will result in a positive effect on measures to protect intellectual property rights internationally and protection vis-à-vis other territories such as asia, australia, the pacific, etc.; 3. protect eu competition, cultural diversity and contribute to job creation.
in writing. - i voted for the epp/ecr resolution and against the others because the international acta agreement allows for a more effective fight against counterfeiting, which will bring better protection for copyright and, implicitly, help to protect european industry. acta will also help protect consumers from counterfeit products, which are increasingly present on european markets.
the union's energy strategy should focus on energy efficiency, reducing primary energy consumption and energy poverty, promoting renewable energy and the union's energy security. however, it is essential that the union's energy strategy is also linked to industrial policy, transport policy, research and innovation policy and climate change policy. we call on the commission and the member states to develop the necessary financial and fiscal instruments for energy efficiency, in particular in the building sector, and to give priority to energy efficiency and smart energy infrastructure in the future multiannual financial framework. the union must attach greater importance to the eastern partnership and in particular to the black sea region, a region of particular geostrategic importance for the union's energy security and for the diversification of its energy supply routes. we invite the commission and the member states to continue the implementation of the european southern gas corridor project, in particular the nabucco project, which could significantly improve the security of energy supply.
energy is a major priority that cannot be delayed and it is important that the future action plan 2011-2020 makes a significant contribution to strengthening the common policy of the european union. we need close cooperation, particularly in the field of energy infrastructure, and adequate european funding. i believe that, in addition to public and community funding, in order to develop a strategic infrastructure at union level, which will drive the expansion and integration of all local, regional and european energy markets, we must pay greater attention to the private sector and investments from here. in my view, a good way is to promote public-private partnerships by providing the necessary political and administrative support, a certain level of funding and public guarantees. this will help us to secure the much-needed funding for the future of any energy policy.
in my view, improving the eu's renewable energy potential is one of the most important elements of the report. that's why i remind you that the dobrogea region in southeastern romania will become the largest wind farm in europe in a few years. construction of the 522 turbines will be completed in 2011. dobrogea will thus be able to supply 50% of national consumption. infrastructure is another key element for a functioning energy market. the eu must choose between those projects that prove to be efficient and economically viable. the agri interconnector, one of romania's first contributions to the development of energy infrastructure, is low cost and offers an alternative. diversification of sources of supply is also required in the oil sector. the p8 pipeline is a good example of this. romania and serbia have recently resumed feasibility studies for the construction of the first constanţa-pancevo tronson.
diversification of sources, a new energy infrastructure, increasing the share of renewable sources are important for the union's energy future. but at the same time we must not abandon the use of old energy sources, of course, improved by innovative technologies, according to the possibilities and needs of each member state. the most important thing for me, for the citizens i represent here, is that we must keep the price affordable for all consumers, and maintain and even create new jobs in this area. we must not have a situation where there is a surplus of energy on the european energy market because it cannot be bought because of high prices.
in writing. it is time to talk about a real european energy strategy. currently, there is a lack of implementation of eu energy legislation. through the provisions of the lisbon treaty, the european union has a firm legal framework for developing a functioning single market, guaranteeing security of supply, sustainability, network interconnection and solidarity. in this context, the new member states, which are much more vulnerable to external disruptions to energy supply, need the support of the european union to face these challenges. i also want to advocate that member states should be able to continue to subsidize coal mines at least until 2018. in a capitalist world, the term noncompetitive is synonymous with social plague. we have to take into account the human factor, think about the negative socioeconomic consequences of closing coal mines, which are a major source of jobs, before labelling a mine as noncompetitive.
in writing. the proposed energy strategy should promote a diversified combination of energy sources, namely renewable energy and nuclear energy, in the long term. however, this strategy cannot be viable unless the transmission network is strengthened to support market integration and the development of large-scale sustainable energy production. strengthening interconnections and links with third countries is also of paramount importance. there is an urgent need to develop and modernise distribution networks to accommodate the increasingly common cases of distributed production. market integration also requires, of course, better use of existing functional networks, based on cross-border harmonisation of market structures and the development of common european models for managing interconnections. and, last but not least, the establishment of an eu-wide 'smart grid' capable of managing, distributing and measuring, in real time, all the different production and consumption patterns to ensure the safe and efficient operation of the future electricity system is of the utmost importance.
in writing. i would like to welcome this report and in particular the references to the development of the potential in the field of bioenergy. the european potential in this area is under-exploited, and the situation in some member states is relevant, where there are huge areas of agricultural land that remain uncultivated every year. these abandoned lands could also be exploited for renewable energy. the example of romania, which is the one i am most familiar with, is instructive: some three million hectares remain unused, and the energy lost on this area is about 187 terawatts per hour. i think that this issue should be taken into account in the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy. the call to the commission to propose a policy framework and support the continued promotion of the use of sustainable second generation biofuels in europe is timely and i hope it will be taken up by the ec.
mr president, being an optimistic person, i consider that a step forward is now possible at cancún in the form of a balanced package that will allow countries to take faster, stronger actions across all areas of climate change. it is therefore of high importance to re-establish europe’s leading position within the international climate negotiations by introducing the climate diplomacy principle, and for the european union and its member states to define and implement a principle of climate justice, advocating therefore an equity clause in future international climate negotiations. i stress the importance of establishing the mechanism that regulates the funding of the financial aspects of climate change. new innovative sources of revenue, such as a financial transaction tax, green funds or private sources will be necessary to raise the money required in order to implement climate change adaptation and mitigation projects and to achieve green growth, which contributes to a good life for citizens, and fair growth. let us also not forget the gender dimension in climate change policies.
climate change is certainly the greatest challenge facing humanity today. unfortunately, expectations for the cancun conference are somewhat shy, due to the failure of copenhagen. at copenhagen, developed countries were expected to support developing countries' action plans to combat the effects of climate change through various means. however, the effects of the economic crisis, which are felt mainly at eu level, are forcing us to focus on other priorities. the importance of an international agreement to reduce carbon emissions is essential. at cancun, the eu must express a common position on the objectives it has to achieve and take into account that the success of the 2020 strategy is conditional on meeting the climate change objective. in this context, i would stress the role of partnerships aimed at developing the potential of sustainable energy at regional level and encouraging regions to use renewable energy.
the eu-africa summit in tripoli next week offers us the opportunity to reflect on the direction we want to take the partnership that links us to africa. in my view, the european commission's 11 november communication is welcome and i would particularly like to welcome the emphasis in this document on the need to complement development cooperation with concrete measures that could trigger sustainable and inclusive growth in this region. indeed, if we want the countries of the african continent to become true partners of the union and to assume their own destiny, there is no other way than to promote economic growth. i would like to stress three points which i believe are particularly important for our future relationship with africa: firstly, if we want the union's voice to be heard on the african continent, we must ensure that we have a partner who can hear our message. strengthening the african union in institutional and operational terms is a priority in this regard; secondly, i believe that the partnership on peace and security is the area of cooperation with africa which, in the commission's and the experts' analysis, is currently working best. but i think we can do more than that. we need, in my view, to strengthen the dimension of conflict prevention and policy-enhancement mechanisms because it is clear that both conflict and the fragility of some states in the region influence the achievement of the millennium development goals; finally, i would like to stress the essential nature of democratisation and respect for human rights. on these issues, the union and africa are often not in unison. the political dialogue must therefore be strengthened and the democratisation of the region must be a priority subject, to be tackled systematically in relation to africa.
the next africa-eu summit is a good opportunity to develop a realistic cooperation strategy. i believe that the proposals put forward by the european commission to strengthen relations between the two continents will facilitate the adoption of a concrete action plan at the summit. the decisions of the heads of state and government who will meet on this occasion will affect one and a half billion people in 80 countries. eradicating poverty, human rights and economic governance are common challenges that require a common approach. this is why it is important that the eu-africa partnership does not remain a donor-recipient partnership but becomes an equal partnership. as i have done in the debate on poverty reduction, i would like to stress the importance of achieving the millennium development goals. i believe that what is needed in particular is a good articulation of the four priority areas of action: financing, security, food, health and education.
madam president, i would first like to say that it is true that we could have discussed this much longer and come to a different text, but at the same time, this is about the time that is usually spent on emergency resolutions. we must therefore tell our moroccan partners that this is where the consensus of the various political groups actually ended. i believe that this is a step in that dialogue. i support the proposal made - i believe for the first time - by mr panzeri to continue the dialogue on certain subjects within the parliamentary committee which bind us to our moroccan colleagues. it is a recently created commission which could, why not, be supported by a group of friends of morocco because there are many of them here. i also look forward to the dialogue with the moroccan minister for foreign affairs. he's announced his presence next week before the foreign affairs committee. this is another opportunity to continue this dialogue.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, my group’s philosophy on ukraine-european union relations today could be expressed by the following paraphrase of a famous speech: do not ask what ukraine could do for the european union, but ask what the european could do for ukraine, in order to have in ukraine a reliable pillar of the european union project. to this end, the european union approach on ukraine should be balanced, fair, fact-based and strategic. i believe that these criteria were met by the results of the recent summit, and i would like to thank the commissioner for expressing our approach in this way. ‘balanced’ means asking for improvements and at the same time offering assistance. ‘fair’ means avoiding taking sides in internal political controversies and using the same standards when evaluating the actions of parties wearing the colour we like and those wearing the colour we do not like. ‘fact-based’ means deciding to trust in evidence and not mere allegations, rumours and prejudices. ‘strategic’ means promoting policies which could allow ukraine to become organically integrated in the european union project and not policies which are meant to use ukraine in our confrontation with its neighbours. the compromise resolution we are supposed to be adopting following today’s debate is not a perfect but a decent example of such an approach. i have to deplore a few mistakes in the printing of the text. we must ask all political players in ukraine to avoid presenting this resolution as a victory of one against another. in fact, this resolution is meant to send to all ukrainian political forces the message that it is high time for them to unite behind a minimum national agenda and to deliver the long-awaited reforms, policies and political results which would assure a better life for the people and a better opportunity for the country, with the aim of european integration. there is no need for internationalisation of the internal controversies in ukraine. let us all accomplish our duties both here and there, and the future will reward all of us.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is interesting to see that ukraine is so often on our agenda. i hope this signifies progress in our relationship. i tend to believe that, with pragmatism and respect on both sides, understanding differences but finding common interests, we can build on common projects and achieve an honest partnership. i appreciate the recent statements of the ukrainian leadership, which i hope now are putting aside some fears that ukraine is moving away from a european future. on the other hand, any debate on ukraine has a tendency to become a war between the european political families of the opposition and government political parties of ukraine. i think this does not help, because it is not about who is better – government or opposition – or who is better supported by the europeans, it is about ukrainian citizens’ democratic future, and about ukrainians having a strong, democratic and prosperous country. the summit that took place this week achieved good results in fostering access to eu programmes and in the negotiations on the association agreement. i am particularly happy to see long-awaited progress towards a free trade area. of course, much remains to be done, in terms both of economic and institutional reforms, and the steps taken should be consolidated. no exemptions should be allowed to be made under the public procurement law, which was adopted earlier this year – not even for the european football championship. while a new tax code is a good step towards improving the fiscal environment, this should not become a burden, especially on smes, which play such an important role in any healthy economy. but let me be clear. this is not about us telling ukraine what to do, and it is not about what ukraine needs to do for us. it is primarily about what ukraine needs to do for itself, because both institutional and economic reforms are a prerequisite for a prosperous democratic future, and this is in the ukrainian citizens’ best interest.
an important aspect of today's debate was the criticism of the transparency and fairness of the local elections on 31 october. these have rightly concerned the government's increased influence over the media, the political role of the secret services and the adoption of the new electoral law, which disadvantages opposition parties. ukraine remains a key partner for the eu. in this regard, i welcome the eu's commitment to the process of reform and democratisation, reaffirmed at the summit on monday. the partnership with ukraine is also a natural one for romania, given its important role in the black sea region and the common challenges in the field of energy security. as already the case for the republic of moldova, it is envisaged to conclude a border traffic agreement with ukraine in line with eu rules. my country also expressed its support for the launch of the eu action plan on visa liberalisation for ukrainian citizens.
in writing. i would like to remind you that every country has the right to become a member of the eu, as provided for in article 49 of the union treaties. it is precisely because ukraine wants to become, one day, a member of the eu that i am deeply concerned about the way the recent local elections in this country have been conducted. the elections were neither free, fair nor democratic. the change in legislation shortly before the elections, the fact that the party of regions was 'pushed' to the top of the electoral lists in 85% of cases, the late registration of opposition parties, and other obstacles to fair representation of opposition parties call into question the character of the political system. as the us government has pointed out, the local elections were clearly below the level of the presidential elections in january. in order to demonstrate their commitment to democratic values, ukrainian leaders must adopt electoral legislation in line with international norms.
i would like to congratulate yannick jadot on the ambitious proposals put forward in this report and, above all, on his willingness to find a compromise with all the political groups which tabled amendments. we must recognize that there have been key moments when the european union has had the opportunity to speak with one voice. copenhagen was one of them, and the whole planet was waiting for the european union to take the lead in the fight against climate change and to lead reluctant states in the same direction. expectations, unfortunately, have not materialized, and disappointment has been directly proportional to it. the conclusion that can be drawn is that there is no consensus within the union. there are national governments that are not really ready to make strong commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and one sure explanation could be the economic and financial crisis that has slowed their momentum to engage in developing an ambitious climate policy. however, tackling climate change at both local and global levels must be a continuing concern for the world's states. it's not just the future of future generations that is at stake, but global justice. it is not right that developing countries should be left to pay the costs of global warming while the industrialized countries are pursuing a pragmatic and individualistic approach. what is needed is real north-south solidarity. that's why i'm looking at the cancun summit as an opportunity to go beyond an operational agreement. cancun must be a legally binding global operational agreement to help keep global warming below 2 degrees celsius. a more defined verification procedure than that established in copenhagen is also required. nor can the european union's singular effort to combat climate change guarantee the success of an agreement for the period after 2012. we need to convince other parties to make more ambitious commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. last but not least, i want to focus on the relationship between international trade and climate change. trade is an important tool in the transfer of technology to developing countries. this requires the removal of barriers to green trade. this could take the form of eliminating, at least at the wto level, tariffs on green products. we must also be aware of the global disruption that the current trading system is producing in transport-based labour and production. that is why i end by advocating the encouragement of local production in the european union.
on behalf of the epp group. i wish to speak as the epp group's alternative rapporteur for the european ombudsman's special report. i would first like to stress that the achievement of consensus among all the political groups facilitated the preparation of the report. i would point out that there was no amendment tabled and i would also like to congratulate mrs paliadeli on this result. it is worrying that the commission's non-cooperative practices towards the ombudsman can generate a pronounced lack of trust of citizens in the european institutions. the lack of good cooperation jeopardises the ombudsman's and the european parliament's ability to supervise the commission effectively. i also recall the principle of sincere cooperation enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it involves strengthening good faith relations between the eu institutions. unfortunately, the ombudsman very often encounters delays in the commission's deadlines for public access to documents. another concern is that the ombudsman had to draw up a special report as a last resort to persuade the commission to be more cooperative. such cases should not be encountered in the future. in this regard, i would like to ask the european commission to make further efforts to cooperate more effectively with the ombudsman. it should not be overlooked that, if the commission does not make such a commitment, parliament will be able to apply sanctions. the situation described in the report creates a systemic problem. it deprives citizens of one of the key benefits they expect to derive from the fundamental right to complain.
the european ombudsman is the democratic conscience of the european union. it contributes year by year to strengthening the trust of citizens with complaints in the institutions. it is a particular pleasure to note that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is now also monitoring compliance with the charter of fundamental rights, in particular by ensuring that the right to good administration is respected. i find the european network of ombudsmen extremely useful, as the level of awareness among citizens and the quality of public services in some member states, including romania, where i come from, are below the european average. this is also reflected in the ombudsman's report on its activities. i therefore ask the ombudsman to try in future to collect complaints to national ombudsmen concerning the application of european law by member states, since citizens are most often brought into contact with european law through their own authorities.
in writing. the application of european law is vital if eu citizens are to enjoy the full benefits of the internal market, as even the best-performing legislation becomes useless if it is not applied. as regards internal market legislation, there is a lot of progress to be made, particularly with regard to the services directive or the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. it is true that this legislation is technical in nature, which complicates the implementation process. for this reason, cooperation between the european institutions and national administrations is essential. the internal market information system, used for services, has proved particularly useful and i believe we could benefit from extending it to other sectors. i would stress, however, the need for member states to take transposition seriously and to avoid as far as possible the delays that cause the internal market to operate at suboptimal parameters. finally, i stress the need for citizens to be able to solve their problems with the application of european law quickly and at minimum cost. this requires the replenishment of solvit resources as well as the intensive promotion of this informal problem-solving tool. last but not least, priority should be given to the development of alternative dispute resolution.
first of all, i too would like to welcome the european commission's proposals for the revision of the rules on horizontal cooperation in the field of competition. they aim to clarify the conditions for obtaining exemptions, readjust restrictions and provide information on intellectual property rights. the economic and financial crisis has highlighted the need for closer cooperation on these plans and for common economic regulation at global level. we also need to assess the possibility of more frequent international exchange of information in the field of competition and the possibility of global governance in this area. making cooperation agreements between competitors more efficient promotes innovation and contributes to the competitiveness of european companies. i therefore consider that there is also a need to examine the possibilities of introducing block exemption regulations for other types of horizontal agreements at times.
in writing. − the european parliament must not give in to pressure from the european commission to accept the 2011 budget. it would mean that the changes to the treaty on which the union is founded would be violated by the most democratic forum of the european community, the only one directly elected. the reactions of the european commission leaders suggest that the eu executive is living with the impression that parliament does not agree with the budget, which is designed to show who really holds power. but it is clear that parliament, which has spoken out in its entirety against the 2011 budget from the commission, has more important things to do than to fight unnecessary power struggles. the reality is that the budget does not take account of the union's new competences and does not provide funding for the eu 2020 strategy, which is unanimously agreed. we cannot be inconsistent with our own decisions, we cannot think and approve generous strategies without also securing the financial side of their implementation. it is parliament's right to set the course for the union next year, as given by the treaty of lisbon. the unity with which all the parliamentary groups in the european legislature have acted only demonstrates that the budget must be reconsidered on a much more flexible basis.
in writing. − through its policies, and in particular its trade policy, the union must defend its trade interests, respecting its own rules and values and ensuring that others respect them. this perspective must help the various european institutions to launch and lead a new trade policy, an ambitious policy based on firmness and dialogue. it should be borne in mind that in europe, european industrial and commercial companies are subject to strict compliance with social and environmental standards. if the european union complies with binding standards, it must be able to demand the same from its trading partners, in particular emerging countries, and to promote quality and sustainability requirements, especially for food products entering its territory, in order to maintain fair and equitable trade. in this respect, the high standards of the european single market in health, safety, environment, worker and consumer protection constitute a specific european model, which should serve as a source of inspiration at international level and in multilateral contexts and should be reflected in the ongoing negotiations on bilateral trade agreements.
in writing. − i appreciate the excellent relationship between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions in the institutional framework, with regard to mutual respect for their respective powers and prerogatives, and i consider that the practice already established by the ombudsman of ensuring the presence of a representative at all meetings of the committee on petitions is a good omen.
in writing. − public broadcasting services must remain independent of the political environment and must have adequate financial resources to ensure quality and accessible information programmes for all citizens in any area of the country. i also believe that the introduction of new technologies will make it possible to produce quality programmes for all categories of listeners. increased attention should be paid to young people, who are always ahead of the curve with new technologies, which is why specific programmes are needed for them, including through the internet.
in writing. − the main message we wanted to convey through this report is the need to maintain an independent public service broadcasting. i insisted on the additions to the draft report on board appointments, which must be made on the basis of competence alone and not on political partisanship. we also tried to make clear our desire to have attractive, high-quality content for public broadcasters, but also to incorporate new platforms, taking into account new technologies. one point i stressed was the investment in public broadcasting services, without which high standards of operation are impossible.
in writing. − unfortunately, declarative efforts, national and international resolutions and plans to improve the protection of women in theatres of conflict have not resulted in the eradication of this barbaric weapon frequently used in modern warfare: sexual violence. on the contrary, impunity provides the conditions for proliferation in this direction, which is completely contrary to our values. i am among those who have repeatedly denounced the mass rapes in congo, liberia and other conflict zones, especially in africa. the worst problem is that there have been cases where atrocities have been committed within walking distance of un bases. thousands of women who fall victim to sexual abuse and violence are also condemned to later endure the social stigma and the burden of terrible diseases such as hiv infection. the european union must step up its action to combat these grave human rights violations so that un resolutions do not remain a dead letter. the international day for the elimination of violence against women, which we celebrate on 25 november, should also remind us that women are victims of domestic violence, which is alarmingly common, of marital rape, sexual harassment and human trafficking.
in writing. − security council resolution 1325, adopted on 31 october 2000, recognises that women have historically been excluded from the peace and stabilisation process of a nation, calling for women's equal participation at all levels from conflict prevention to post-conflict reconstruction, peacekeeping and security. the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the resolution should mark the beginning of a new agenda, which is being implemented and which cannot be implemented without political support at the highest level and without the necessary resources. the eu must actively promote the employment of as many women as possible in senior management positions in order to coordinate and ensure the coherence of european policies and actions and to monitor the implementation of commitments. the ec must appoint at least five women to senior posts in the european external action service and ensure gender balance in the experts it employs. in addition, there is a need for an organisational unit within the eeas responsible for gender issues and in each geographical department and eu delegation at least one full-time position dedicated to the gender dimension with responsibilities for women, peace and security.
in writing. − i believe that the european commission must adapt the scope and funding of european veterinary policy to take account of the specificities of bees and beekeeping in order to ensure more effective disease control and the availability of effective and standardised veterinary medicine throughout the european union and in collaboration with beekeepers' organisations.
in writing. − the new energy strategy for europe aims to implement the lisbon treaty on a single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency, reducing import dependence and increasing domestic energy production. i support this resolution because the european union needs the swift implementation of energy legislation and overall energy strategies. we need a long-term vision of energy policy to ensure the proper functioning of this market, supporting modern integrated networks, improving the exploitation of the union's energy efficiency potential, promoting research and development and innovation in the field and placing the benefits for consumers at the heart of european energy policy. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is a first step towards a comprehensive community energy policy in the context of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the eu's energy security policy should enable it to anticipate, not just react to, gas crises such as the one in 2009. this must be done in parallel with the achievement of the stated targets of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a 20% reduction in consumption by 2020. the task is not easy, especially since the financial effort for environmental objectives alone will amount to €58 billion. add to this the financial effort to reduce the eu's growing dependence on external energy resources. internal and external aspects must be combined to make the eu energy-vulnerable and its policies must be adapted accordingly. all measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market should be accompanied by dynamic diplomacy aimed at strengthening cooperation with the main producing, transit and consuming countries. national plans with preventive and emergency measures are urgently needed and their coordination at community level would ensure their effectiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020. under this resolution, the main objectives are to move to a low-carbon energy system and to guarantee the security of energy supply for all member states. these two objectives must ensure both the eu's competitiveness and the distribution of energy at affordable prices, with secure supplies. i believe that extending the rules of the eu's internal energy market to neighbouring countries and efforts to diversify energy sources and transport routes for energy imports are essential to guarantee energy security.
in writing. − the european union has set itself a series of very ambitious targets for the next decade, one of which is to increase energy efficiency by 2020. it is an objective that will allow for increased investment in the field and, by implication, create new jobs in both rural and urban areas. in this context, i believe that it is useful to provide financial incentives for such projects, but also to launch campaigns to inform citizens about energy efficiency and the use of resources that consumer products and products with an energy impact can offer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 25 november 2010 on the un climate change conference in cancun to meet the global target of limiting the increase in annual average surface temperature to 2°c (the '2°c target'). the consequences of not meeting the 2°c target can be particularly serious. up to 40% of species will disappear, millions of people will be displaced by rising sea levels and increased frequency of extreme weather events, crop yields will decline, food prices will rise, and global economic output will decline by at least 3%. the scientific case for climate change and its effects is more than clear, so it is crucial to create a legislative framework to ensure that these measures are implemented.
in writing. − i believe that the european union and the member states must define and implement the principle of climate equity and therefore the introduction of an equity clause in future international climate negotiations. i think the biggest injustice would be if the world were unable to limit climate change, because especially the poor people in poor countries would suffer.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution with the conviction that we will achieve a great result in cancun this year. learning from the positive outcome of nagoya in october 2010 and the negative experience of copenhagen in 2009, i believe that the eu will speak with one voice and, on the basis of the mandate, the eu and the member states must continue to play a constructive role at international level in order to achieve a legally binding post-kyoto agreement. for its proper implementation and for more transparency, ngos and civil society must be fully involved. i therefore welcome the signing of the 5,000 civil society representatives to take part in the work of cop 16.
in writing. − trade in goods and services generates around 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions. support the continuation of trade policies aimed at differentiating products and services according to their climate impact. i voted in favour of this resolution because it identifies further steps that will allow the european union to continue on this path, reinforce the positive interaction between trade and climate protection, the instruments that ensure trade-climate coherence and encourage fair prices in international trade while avoiding carbon emissions. i want to stress that the european union cannot take a leading role in the fight against climate change unless it strengthens the competitiveness of its economy through energy saving and the development of renewable energy sources. these are two sectors with high potential for industrial development, innovation, spatial planning, job creation and can improve european energy security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the rapporteur's text is moving towards bold commitments by the european union to combat climate change. the resolution proposes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 30% at eu level. i support this ambitious proposal and at the same time believe that this eu effort must be matched internationally by the efforts of the major industrialised countries. so we have to find a way to train the more reluctant international state actors to follow suit. in my capacity as virtual rapporteur for the s&d political group, i also stressed, by submitting amendments to the original text, the need to create a world environment organisation and to introduce environmental criteria into the gsp reform.
in writing. − to play a leading role in the fight against climate change, the european union needs to strengthen the competitiveness of its economy through energy saving and the use of renewable energy sources, two sectors that can improve its energy security and have high potential in terms of industrial development, innovation, spatial planning and job creation. at the same time, the eu needs to change its trade policies, whether bilateral, regional or multilateral. this is because trade in goods and services is responsible for about 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions. this is a difficult project. but the eu has already taken the first steps in the right direction with regard to illegal imports of wood, biofuels, and aviation emissions. the report, which is the result of numerous discussions with businesses, associations, trade union representatives and the commission, aims to identify further steps that would allow the eu to continue in this direction.
in writing. − the eu has a key role to play in efforts to create new governance and, to this end, it must promote policy coherence in international institutions. it is becoming clear that the eu needs to reflect on the trade policy it wishes to adopt as part of its review of its trade strategy. if it wants to send a clear message against protectionism, it must ensure the fairness of international trade. the union must defend its commercial interests by respecting its own rules and values and ensuring that others respect them. it should be borne in mind that in europe companies are subject to strict social and environmental standards. the eu must be able to demand the same from its trading partners, especially emerging countries, and promote quality and sustainability requirements, especially for food products entering its territory, in order to maintain fair and equitable trade. the union must engage in dialogue with its partners and find a common space for transmitting its values. through this effort to be transparent and to engage in dialogue on the new powers conferred on it, the european parliament plays a key role, with the duty to give the negotiations a political and moral mandate.
in writing. − the economic and social effects of trade liberalisation vary from country to country and need to be controlled in most cases. the common commercial policy must be in line with the general objectives of the european union and must not serve only the short-term interests of some important economic operators. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that integrating the principles of corporate social responsibility into international trade rules will give the union the possibility to put certain pressure on companies and on the states that are signatories to trade agreements with the european union to ensure that labour standards are respected. in doing so, we will ensure that the foreign policies we put in place effectively contribute to sustainable social and economic development and that businesses abide by our internationally agreed norms and values.
member of the commission. − madam president, the european commission shares the deep concerns of this parliament – so explicitly and clearly expressed by the honourable members – as regards the human rights situation in iraq. the foreign affairs council on monday expressed its outright condemnation of the recent terrorist attacks, notably those which targeted places where civilians congregate, including christian and muslim places of worship. the council, adopting conclusions put forward by high representative / vice-president ashton, also stressed that the new government in iraq will need to dedicate itself to the pursuit of national reconciliation. this means it should represent the interests and needs of all iraqis, regardless of creed and ethnicity. the protection and promotion of human rights, including those of persons belonging to minorities, must be a top priority. in its dialogue with iraq, the european union frequently voices its human rights concerns, including not only the freedom of religion or belief but also on the death penalty. ten days ago the eu made an urgent and direct call on the authorities in reaction to the decision by the iraqi high tribunal to sentence to death five representatives of the former regime, including tariq aziz. the eu recalled its firm opposition to the use of capital punishment under all circumstances, seeking a global moratorium on the death penalty as a first step. human rights have a prominent place in the partnership and cooperation agreement which we hope to sign with iraq soon. that is the direct answer to mrs de lange. since 2003, an important part of eu cooperation with iraq has focused on strengthening the rule of law and promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms, for example, through eujust lex and community assistance. substantial funds have also been dedicated to providing protection and relief to the most vulnerable iraqis. many of them are, for obvious reasons, internally displaced and now live in areas with dense minoritiy group populations. our work has ranged from promoting awareness and enforcement of human rights among vulnerable groups to the rehabilitation of schools in areas already mentioned in the discussions, such as nineveh, which has a large christian population. humanitarian assistance also continues to reach the most vulnerable inside and outside iraq. eu aid cannot directly target specific ethnic or religious communities, but it should and it can, help the most vulnerable iraqis, wherever they live. we do not underestimate the challenges facing the iraqi government. it is no easy task to root out the extremists who seek to create sectarian tensions through acts of barbarity. security, development and the preservation of human rights are closely linked. the eu remains committed to helping iraq as best as it can to secure progress on all three issues. the iraqi people deserve no less.
in writing. – i join my colleagues in this parliament in the condemnation of the ongoing murders, executions and human rights violations occurring in iraq. the situation for iraq’s christian minority is one of life and death: nearly 50 iraqi christians were killed in a ruthless massacre in our lady of salvation church on 31 october 2010. human rights watch estimates that, since 2003, almost half of the christian population of iraq, hundreds of thousands of people, have had to flee the country. we must continue to fight for them to stay alive and be free. we must stand for minority rights and continue to oppose murder, violence, segregation, and any discrimination based on ethnicity or religious belief. i call on the commission and the council to raise the issue of christians’ safety in iraq as a matter of urgency, as the eu continues to move toward closer cooperation with the iraqi government.
(to ask a question under the 'blue card' procedure to reinhard bütikofer (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)) i would like to ask our colleague, if he accepts the question, why is the position of the chinese ambassador more relevant in this regard than our desire to talk about what is happening in tibet in this context? because if i understand correctly, his excellency believes that we should follow what the chinese embassy says rather than what our own convictions tell us.
i am happy to support the motion for a resolution, because it clearly sets out the principles which i feel are my own as a representative of an indigenous national minority. thus, it is the principle that the suppression of minority languages is a fundamental infringement of the freedoms of the citizens belonging to the minority concerned, that education in the mother tongue is the most appropriate for acquiring knowledge and that local authorities and communities should be given the power to decide on the language of education. i would like to draw the attention of all my colleagues who support this motion to the fact that these principles are unfortunately not fully respected in some member states of the european union. this is evidenced by the slovak state law, which is still in force, and the romanian education law, which allows certain subjects to be taught only in the state language. i could name a few more eu countries. i'm not doing it now. i am a strong supporter of paying attention to violations outside the union, but i also believe it is important to speak out against practices that are harmful to national minorities within the union.
on behalf of the epp group. first of all, i would like to welcome the release of aung san suu kyi, the leader of the opposition in burma, after many years of house arrest. i also want to express the hope that this release will be followed by the release of the more than 2 000 political prisoners, because, as mr posselt said, otherwise we will understand that this is just a cosmetic gesture. i also have to tell you that i want to support aung san suu kyi in rebuilding her party, the national league for democracy, which was abused and disbanded in may. of course, there is a huge amount of work to be done, and that is why i believe that international pressure must continue because the military junta has not engaged in a process of democratization, but the exact opposite of such a process, the elections held in november being neither fair nor free. so i think we should not lose sight of the importance of this space.
as early as february 2010, the european parliament called for the release of aung san suu kyi, who has been in detention since 1990. the fact that the burmese authorities have decided to release her a few months after this imperative request by meps is a first step in the right direction. however, we cannot regard this particular situation as a human rights restoration in burma, given that there are still many pro-democracy activists who remain in captivity. the treaty of lisbon states that the european union aims to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples. by common values we mean respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and human rights. the european union has a duty to do more than promote these values within itself, and i therefore call for a message of solidarity to be sent to the burmese people, who are suffering from repression by the government and who are fighting a daily battle for respect for fundamental rights.
mr. president, i have to go. i am pleased that the romanian winner of the european commission's 2010 european journalist of the year competition has been selected from the ranks of the hungarian national community in romania. the winner of the prize was recognised by the commission for a report written in hungarian, her mother tongue. hungarian is not an official language in romania. for the one and a half million hungarian community, it is the language in which they learn about the world around them. i am grateful to the commission for its understanding that it is not possible to exclude the possibility of competing publications written in a language other than the official language of the state concerned. however, i feel that there is a lack of awareness because national communities that do not have an official language of the eu - catalans, basques, corsicans and many others - have not been given the opportunity to inform their community in their mother tongue and to participate in the competition. it is time for them to take the european reality, multilingualism and the coexistence of cultures into account in all their decisions.
the european commission published a report last week on the implementation of the 2007 strategy on nutrition and obesity. this report highlighted some concrete actions in the fight against unhealthy eating and obesity in the european union, but also the fact that many of the objectives set out in the strategy were not achieved. the strategy included commitments to expand and support nutrition education among children, but little has been done at european level to meet these commitments. for example, the european 'fruit in schools' programme contains educational elements but is only addressed to a limited number of children and, although its positive impact is nonetheless, we find it rather limited. another major problem is the advertising of food products to children. in 2007, the commission drew up codes of conduct to regulate the marketing of baby food, but unfortunately, today in some member states there is still direct advertising of unhealthy foods to children, as well as very different interpretations of the guidelines on the code of conduct.
during romania's pre-accession to the european union, the european commission closely monitored the situation of international adoptions and recommended that they be stopped, following reports of abuses in adoption practices; however, in 2009, in the context of the european commission and council of europe conference on the challenges of adoption procedures in europe, i wrote a letter to mr jacques barrot, in which i wanted to draw attention to the consequences of the reopening of the market for international adoptions and called for consistency on the part of the european commission. following an investigation by a romanian newspaper, we are faced with the hypothesis of an abuse of power by the european commission, manifested by the imposition of the conclusion of the official report of the conference, which recommends the establishment of a european agency for adoption. i believe that the image of the european union suffers from the association of the guardian of the european treaty with the falsification of an official act. i therefore expect a clear, reasoned reply from the european commission to remove this question mark on its verticality.
fundamental rights are the basic principles of the european union. ensuring that they are respected is the primary duty of all the european institutions. in romania, a member state of the european union, we are witnessing serious violations of fundamental rights. the current government of romania, after having brought the country to economic and social bankruptcy, is now implementing aberrant measures that seriously violate the fundamental rights recognized in the european union - the right to pension, trade union rights, the right to wages, the rights of young mothers - and, moreover, i would like to draw attention to the fact that romania is also preparing to amend the law on the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities. the adoption of the draft law proposed by the romanian government, instead of strengthening the protection of persons with disabilities and promoting their social inclusion, will only make their lives more difficult, making them dependent on the state. the interests and dignity of persons with disabilities will be profoundly violated.
the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area is very important for the stability of the european union on its eastern border. secondly, and perhaps just as importantly, it is a natural step, as both countries were granted full membership of the european union in 2007. however, this decision must be a technical one, not a sentimental or passionate one. there are some parties in the european union that are in government that think they can win some electoral points by opposing this decision and blaming romania and bulgaria for the fact that there are problems with roma integration at the european level. on the other hand, if the report is finalised in a favourable way and the checks carried out these days in the two member states show that the two countries are ready to join the schengen area, i say that it is very important that we continue to support them, especially as we gave a favourable opinion not long ago.
the latest amendments to the romanian labour code will further worsen the situation of employees, already badly affected by the recession. the notice period and the probationary period for the terminating employee will be extended, and the employment contract may be terminated without notice during or at the end of this period, in which more than three persons may be successively employed for the same post. the most abusive measure, however, in flagrant contradiction to basic human rights, is the legal suspension of the individual employment contract for the period of participation in the strike. i just want to protest against this attempt to turn employees into slaves of the bosses and i would like to ask the political forces and european institutions to intervene to stop the degradation of the status of employees in romania.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the epp group is in favour of the two proposals for eu-georgia agreements: the readmission agreement and the visa facilitation agreement. i would like to refer to the last one, the visa facilitation agreement. it simplifies the visa application for georgians. member states will apply uniform and simplified procedures. a visa will cost eur 35, less than at present, and will allow a stay of up to 90 days every six months. visa applications will be processed in 10 days, or in three days for some categories, or less in cases of emergencies. no visas will be required on diplomatic passports. free movement is one road to learning democracy and seeing it at work. the people-to-people direct contact means sharing values and realities. it creates trust. this is why i hope that more eu citizens will travel to georgia and more georgians will travel to the european union.
thank you, commissioner, for the information you have given us on visa facilitation arrangements, particularly with regard to georgia, the republic of moldova and the countries of the former yugoslavia. moreover, our debate coincides with the abolition of visas for citizens of bosnia, herzegovina and albania, with the possibility of swiftly suspending the agreement in the event of problems such as the avalanche of asylum applications. i think any attempt to turn back the clock on the european union's policy towards the western balkans would be a mistake. removing barriers to free movement can play an important role in closing the wounds of the past. i also believe that closer cooperation between the european union and these countries is needed to discourage the influx of asylum seekers, to strengthen border controls, to provide the local population with the right information, and to combat organised criminal networks involved in the trafficking of human beings and the export of crime and prostitution. all of these can help to reduce this phenomenon.
a fundamental condition for the complete abolition of visas between the russian federation and the european union is the fulfilment of the commitments undertaken under the 2007 agreement. the russian authorities have repeatedly called for lifting the requirement for short-stay visas, but the eu has preferred a gradual approach, translated into a list of common steps. i consider it important that all technical conditions are met before implementing a liberalisation decision - for example, improving standards in border management, document security or the fight against corruption. it is also necessary for russia to confirm by deeds its intention to achieve tangible results in the settlement of frozen conflicts in the region. it has a substantial responsibility in this regard. resolving the conflict in transnistria is a political priority for my country. we support the continuation of formal talks within the 5+2 negotiations with a view to identifying a lasting solution. it shall fully respect international law and the sovereignty of the republic of moldova. i would also like to refer to the case of the eastern partnership countries, including georgia and the republic of moldova. they have long been waiting for visa liberalisation and have implemented numerous reforms in this regard and i would point out that the republic of moldova is the champion in this area within the eastern partnership. i would stress that russia's achievement of a relaxed visa regime before the countries in its immediate neighbourhood would be a disincentive for the latter. it would thus prove that the status of eastern partnership countries matters very little when strategic concessions from the union are at stake.
in writing. i believe that serbia has so far made great efforts to meet eu expectations and continue on the path towards integration. during 2009 and 2010, it obtained: visa liberalisation, the launch of the ratification process of the stabilisation and association agreement, and the european commission's acceptance of the preparation of the opinion on serbia's eu accession application. it is regrettable, however, that the serbian authorities have not adequately publicized and explained what constitutes the granting of the visa-free travel regime introduced in 2009 so that citizens do not abuse this regime. i hope that this worrying increase in asylum applications to the eu from serbian citizens will not be to the detriment of serbia's integration process. i am confident that the serbian authorities will react without delay and would like to remind that the path to accession depends on serbia's individual efforts to comply with the copenhagen criteria and the stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. the western balkan countries have seen such positive developments in recent years that it seems that the region was a war zone in europe a decade and a half ago. the eu's exemplary support for the democratization process in the western balkans and its open accession perspective for the region's states have undoubtedly contributed to these developments. the decision to liberalize visas a year ago brought the european practice of free movement to macedonia, montenegro and serbia, a clear sign of european concern. there is no doubt that in some member states immigration is again emerging as a serious domestic policy issue and is becoming more pronounced as a consequence of the economic crisis, but i believe that european solidarity must prevail despite the crisis if we are to avoid a resurgence of nationalism and protectionism. the western balkans are not yet part of the eu, but stability in south-eastern europe can only be achieved through the enlargement of the union to the balkans. the union should strictly monitor compliance with technical requirements for border protection, but at the same time provide support to make the citizens of the western balkan states feel that there is a real possibility of improving their lot and that eu accession is within their reach. we need to support the region with effective information, more solidarity and additional financial means on the path of social and economic development so that citizens can find their own prosperity in their own country.
we all know that economic immigration is a real phenomenon in the member states of the european union. however, the presence of third-country workers must be assessed from at least two points of view. the issue is primarily seen as an economic necessity, as demographic and labour market trends show that european societies need the work of immigrants. we are interested in immigration taking place legally and in regulated circumstances, in the possibility for member states to control the process and in immigrants feeling secure in their rights, that is, not having to evade legal procedures. i consider very important the part of the directive that concerns common rights, i.e. the same rights for immigrants and workers who are nationals of a member state. i would also like to draw attention to the second cultural aspect of this question. in many member states, the presence of immigrants with different cultural customs and traditions is a source of tension. i am convinced that the guarantee of equal rights cannot be erased by the prohibition of discrimination in the labour market. in my opinion, the question requires a more nuanced approach. legally immigrant workers bring not only their labour to europe, they want not only to work here, but to study, to start a family, to raise children, to live a full life. so if europe decides that economic immigration is the solution to the imbalances caused by demographics, it cannot ignore the cultural dimension of the issue. the success of multiculturalism presupposes tolerance, mutual respect and solidarity.
the single permit will facilitate administrative procedures, improve the control and management of economic migration and the exchange of data on labour market demand. the present legislative proposal, however, only half solves the problem, because it deals with the rights of persons who have already been admitted to the territory of the union and to the labour market of a member state. two other aspects are not covered: the criteria for granting the right to work and the exclusion of seasonal workers and persons transferred within their undertaking. i would also like to remind you that we are regulating the rights of workers from third countries, but we do not yet have a fully open labour market for all european citizens.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague claude moraes on his report and thank him for the excellent work he is doing as coordinator of the libe committee. i think it is very good that this new directive finally fills a legal vacuum in the area of residence rights for beneficiaries of international protection within the european union. these persons established in one of the member states are currently in a precarious legal situation, as they cannot, under the current conditions, obtain a long-term residence permit in the same way as other third-country nationals. the granting of long-term residence to them must be made on a non-discriminatory basis and be conditional only on prior legal residence, as is the case for other third-country nationals. i believe that it would have been better to take into account in this calculation the entire period of legal residence in the territory of the union from the moment of lodging the application for international protection. at the same time, i believe that account must be taken of the fact that these persons remain permanently vulnerable outside the territory of the union, so that any withdrawal of international protection or of the right of residence must be made in strict compliance with fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement. this directive provides the necessary complementary information on the procedures applicable in cases of expulsion or withdrawal of international protection. i think we should vote in favour of the report by mr claude moraes as part of the overall package of regulations on asylum and migration in the european union.
the reporter. − this report aims to answer the question in the title, namely whether achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion is a sine qua non of global competitiveness in the european union, focusing in particular on the role played by cohesion policy in this regard. it is alarming that the disparities between the 271 regions of the union are so great. if the most developed region has a gdp per capita of 334% of the eu27 average, the poorest region has only 26%, 13 times less. another negative element is the european union's economic growth rate, which is slower than that of our international competitors. it is therefore necessary, as the eu 2020 strategy also states, to develop strategic areas and look beyond the european union to become stronger. europe faces a difficult task because, alongside the effects of the current crisis, it will also have to face other major challenges, such as adaptation to globalisation, demographic change, climate change and energy security issues. the role of cohesion policy in the eu 2020 strategy is unquestionable. i believe that the priorities of this policy should be aligned with the objectives of the future strategy, but that it should remain an independent policy. the objectives of the strategy can be more easily achieved by increasing synergies between the r & d and innovation programmes on the one hand and the cohesion programmes on the other. we need to support large, high-impact projects at european level that will generate growth, create jobs and ensure sustainable development of regions. particular importance should also be attached to investments in infrastructure of all types, namely transport, it&c, social, educational, research and development and environment, which will allow for an adequate level of accessibility for all european citizens and give them equal opportunities for development potential. local and regional direction will be area-specific, allowing for immediate value-added, and the principle of decentralisation down to local authorities needs to be encouraged to improve the absorption of european funds. the particularly important role of smes in promoting economic competitiveness and job creation should not be overlooked. they should have increased access to community financing, financial engineering instruments and other sources of credit. maximising the impact of cohesion policy is absolutely necessary to increase economic competitiveness. i would emphasize here the need to continue simplifying the procedures for using community funds, to ensure their flexibility, to maintain gross domestic product as the main criterion for determining the eligibility of regions under cohesion policy and the need for a concrete proposal from the commission on the use of public-private partnership. to make the european union more globally competitive, i believe that part of the funds allocated through cohesion policy must be used to achieve and maintain global leadership in sectors where europe already has a competitive advantage and in sectors where there is potential to become a global leader. the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion, together with investment in the strategic field, is therefore an absolute prerequisite for ensuring the european union's economic competitiveness on a global scale.
the reporter. − the current global crisis has once again highlighted the importance of good governance at all levels and the need for the sustained involvement of local and regional authorities, as equal partners, in the development and implementation of community policies and strategies, especially as they implement almost 70% of community legislation. cohesion policy has a key role to play in the implementation of governance at several levels. given the significant impact it has on the achievement of european territorial cohesion, the principle of multi-level governance should become binding for all member states. thus, active involvement of local and regional authorities in the decision-making process from the pre-legislative stage, together with a relevant analysis of the efficiency of the mechanisms of shared management, with the different responsibilities of both the commission and the member states, is in fact a guarantee of achieving better results in terms of absorption of european funds in the next programming period. practice has shown that an integrated approach to regional policy is much more effective in terms of the results achieved, and for this reason it should also become mandatory. we need a common definition of the concept of partnership and here i asked the european commission to present a definition in this respect as a condition for the realisation of real partnerships with local and regional authorities. the adoption of the local development methodology based on local partnerships is therefore the solution available to the member states to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in the management and implementation of european programmes, in particular for programmes relating to urban, rural and crossborder development. simplifying rules at community and national level, not just as a result of the economic crisis but as a general principle of future cohesion policy, is a precondition for better governance in cohesion policy, because only then will we be able to encourage potential beneficiaries. in addition, for the next programming period, i believe that we must have a common set of rules for the use of european funds applicable to all member states, thus eliminating the possibility of introducing additional conditions by them which in reality restrict access to funding. if we want a clearer, more results-oriented and much easier to implement policy in the long term, then the commission must strengthen both its capacity to assist local and regional authorities and its systems to monitor the work carried out at national level. training and guidance of these staff during the implementation of programmes will, i believe, reduce the high error rate, particularly in relation to ineligible expenditure and public procurement. in order to eliminate the duplication of audits and excessive controls currently faced by beneficiaries, i asked the commission to create a single audit manual, which would allow a standardised application of a single audit model at all levels. last but not least, we must take steps to encourage private participation in european projects, a first step being to simplify the rules for the operation of financial engineering instruments aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. finally, i would like to note the good cooperation i had with the commission representatives during the consultations, the openness and support they showed in actually supporting the measures contained in this report, an additional guarantee that these measures will ultimately be taken up by the commission.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr maescu, and the rapporteur, mr luhan, for their work. i would like to thank both of you in particular for your two reports, which are again constructive and very positive in their approach to regional policy and which are absolutely timely in view of the debate currently taking place on the future of regional policy, especially with a view to the cohesion forum at the end of january/beginning of february. it is important to see regional policy in particular as an investment policy, a policy of investment in the regions, in the people, for the europeans. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a welcome one. but the point is - and they are both absolutely right - that we must continue to improve our strategy in the future, so that, in addition to the controls that will be necessary in the future, we will also be able to focus much more on the results of our work, in addition to the correct financial behaviour. i always say it is also a core part of the cohesion report and the conclusions: focusing on a few priorities, as set out in the eu 2020 strategy, and flexibility in implementation across the various european regions are not contradictory. the importance of territorial cohesion is enormous. for me, it is a key piece and it shows how it is possible to further improve the living conditions in the regions what our job is to ensure that people also have a perspective in those regions where they were born. this too is a contribution to further cohesion within europe. in this context, it is important - and this should be the focus of the future programming period - to give greater emphasis to the role of the city, given that some 70% of europeans live in urban structures, but it is absolutely essential not to lose sight of the urban-rural relationship. the commission will continue to work with other funds to improve the interfaces and to avoid unnecessary duplication. it is also important, as we have discussed here in this house a while ago, very comprehensively and very well, as i believe, to have an eye on areas with particular geographical characteristics and of course this is a subject which we will encounter very often and which we have to deal with the question of demographic development in europe. on the one hand, we are faced with very serious depopulation trends in rural areas, and on the other hand, we are faced with a huge increase in the attractiveness of urban areas, so that on the one hand we have more and more people in a small area and on the other hand there is a corresponding depopulation. this can be offset to some extent by investing in new and old infrastructure. this is a very important contribution to ensuring growth. the question of partnership and cooperation is very important - this was particularly mentioned in mrs mănescu's report. yes, it is important to develop a multi-level governance. but i would also like to say in this house that it is important that the regions also involve the local level. i sometimes feel that when i am in the regions and i am discussing this, the local representatives are suffering from the lack of involvement of the regional representatives and the regional representatives from the lack of involvement of the national representatives. here it is necessary to develop instruments. i am with you, but i must also say the opposite: of course we have to respect and appreciate the constitutional framework of each member country. but you have a supporter in me in the question of involving all levels, if possible, but also all stakeholders, including ngos, in the development of our partnership and investment programmes. the question of financial control may be dealt with in my final reply, given that i have already exceeded my time. i also welcome the president-in-office, welcome!
on behalf of the epp group. cohesion policy is one of the most important and successful policies of the union. the lisbon treaty allows territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in decision-making and is an important step towards real multi-level governance. it must play a central role in the next programming period, but also in all the design and implementation phases of the europe 2020 strategy. the mănescu report, voted unanimously in the regi committee, aims to emphasise the competences and role of regional and local authorities in the process of implementing cohesion policy. the report underlines that the multi-level approach must be applied horizontally across all union policies. multi-level governance is a prerequisite for achieving territorial cohesion and increasing its potential and should be based on a bottom-up approach, taking into account the diversity of administrative systems existing in the member states. the integrated approach needs to be further emphasised in the current programming period and in the future, as well as improving administrative capacity and the use of financial engineering tools. the role of local and regional authorities must be increased by adopting a local development methodology based on regional partnerships, in particular for projects related to urban, rural and cross-border aspects. these partnerships are designed to contribute to balanced development and go beyond national coordinates, thus contributing to the union's territorial cohesion. in addition, they will highlight the common development potential as well as local particularities. multi-level governance through transparent and clear procedures will by default lead to the decentralisation still needed in some member states. increasing the role of regional and local authorities means giving them more responsibility for making projects more effective, which will mean a more results-based approach. i congratulate mrs m?nescu and mr luhan on the excellent reports they have presented, which add important value to the future of cohesion policy.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, luhan, on his work in producing this report, which is also of particular importance for romania. i believe that the europe 2020 strategy must promote a sustainable development agenda. to this end, both stronger external representation and more effective internal coordination are needed. this report is important because it refers to the achievements of cohesion policy. thus, ensuring that regions are more competitive at global level plays a major role. the allocation of funds for investment and development projects will certainly be a great advantage for our country. it should be underlined that romania can benefit from substantial funds both now and in the period after 2013. in this regard, nationally, they have been... (speaker was interrupted)
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank you for the very lively debate and i wanted to take this opportunity to say a few words on financial control. it is certainly a matter - i have stressed this repeatedly in various places - that we are concerned with simplifying things, particularly in view of the fact that we must make greater efforts to ensure that small and mediumsized enterprises also take advantage of the opportunities we want to offer them with european funds and, in the future, for example, with so-called revolving funds, and that we must try to keep the so-called red tape as low as possible. on the other hand, i must also point out again and again that a good deal of the bureaucracy is added at national level. the european project is not all about bureaucracy, but is rather a 'whole work of art' at national and european level. we have to work together on this. i agree with you, mrs mănescu, that we must try to develop standards here, but of course i cannot ignore national legislation and circumstances. but in principle, i'm with you. the question of conditionality also needs to be examined in greater depth, and there is not enough room for that here today. it is definitely a question of identifying, for each country and for each region, where necessary, the reasons - we know them most of the time - that lead to delays in the implementation of projects. most of the time, it is not primarily or not at all related to money, but to other deficits. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am also grateful to the speakers who referred to the development and partnership agreement and to the fact that, as mr olbrycht said, this is a way of encouraging greater involvement at regional and local level. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am also counting on the support and assistance of the european parliament, because here the european parliament, the commission and the committee of the regions are all in agreement. but there is another player, and that is the member states, who we have to convince here that ultimately there is also added value for the member states when more people are involved in programming and thereby identify much better with it afterwards. i would also like to thank those speakers - i believe they were from the green group - who have dealt with the subject of growth. i am committed to both qualitative and quantitative growth. we need both. and when i think about research, for example, it's something that actually falls under the category of qualitative growth. for example, if one of our major objectives is to increase the share of renewable energy, but we also want to be more energy efficient, then the question of researching how to store electricity, keep it ready and then make it available when i need it is very important in order to be even more efficient in the generation of energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because that too was expressed today if we want to implement the eu 2020 strategy, we can only do so if we transport the policy to all regions, but according to the needs and requirements that are given on the ground. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs in particular for their valuable work.
the reporter. − first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues who have made a significant contribution to this report and, finally, to cohesion policy and its future. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs, who have brought amendments and contributions that are equally significant, and for the fact that we have found consensus very easily together. i don't want to go into too much detail about what was said. i thank you for your kind words, but i would like to emphasize what the commissioner said in particular, very, very worthy words, namely that cohesion policy is a policy of investment in regions and people, a prerequisite for improving living standards in the regions of the european union. i totally agree with that. i also agree with the fact that you are with us - and we thank you for that - on the issue of increased investment in all kinds of infrastructure as a sine qua non for eliminating disparities in the european union. as regards mr besset's attitude, i just want to say that if he had read the report carefully, he would have realised that the report also refers to economic growth based on a green economy and, by making direct reference to the eu 2020 strategy, the green economy is also introduced here. that's why i want to tell you that the report enjoys a majority at the moment. i thank you all again and we hope that the future of cohesion policy is on the right track.
the reporter. − i would like to thank my colleagues for their important contributions to this report, to the final form of the report, both the shadow rapporteurs and the other colleagues who tabled amendments, as well as the colleagues who spoke at such an early hour in the plenary. given that the vote in the regi committee has shown a broad consensus among the political groups on the need to implement the principles and measures proposed in this report, i can only be pleased that today's debate was along the same lines. the working document was drawn up following consultations with the european commission, the committee of the regions and the representatives of the beneficiaries, whom i would also like to thank once again for their contributions. as i said in my previous speech, i am convinced that the european commission will show the openness and determination needed to ensure that the solutions identified and proposed by us in the regi committee do not remain at the proposal stage. we have come with proposals, commissioner, concrete ones; you only have to take them seriously. i say this all the more because in the coming months the union will have to define and adjust its future cohesion policy and its 2020 strategy, as well as the conditions for their successful implementation. we want a new approach to multi-level governance that truly serves the union's core objectives, namely a people's europe characterised by economic growth, social progress and sustainable development.
the swinburne report focuses on ensuring a level playing field between multilateral trading systems. i think it's just as important to put them under the same level of surveillance. i would like to stress the need for better legislation to reduce systemic risk and ensure fair competition in the market. at present there is a worrying lack of information available on trading strategies. the only way to really understand if the market is working properly is if regulators have enough information. esma should establish common rules and reporting arrangements applicable to all data, both in and out of the trading venues. i consider it useful to analyse the effects of setting a minimum order volume for transactions on all anonymous platforms. this would allow to establish whether a satisfactory trade flow is ensured.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, tomorrow afternoon we will be able to share our thoughts on the human rights situation in the world, but this morning we are focusing on the state of play as regards these rights in the european union. discussing the european union first and the rest of the world afterwards is the right order, in my view because, before criticising others, we should put our own house in order. if we really want to be taken seriously we must not turn a blind eye to human rights violations on our own soil. this resolution, for which i want to congratulate our rapporteur, ms gál, focuses on the way forward for eu policy in the field of human rights protection and advancement after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. it deals not only with who bears responsibility for what, but also focuses on the topics that should be at the centre of our concern in the future. i would just like to emphasise two aspects. i was happy with the support given in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to the idea of a kind of freezing mechanism, by which national contested policies or decisions can be frozen by the commission until it has taken a formal decision as to whether to start the infringement procedure. i believe such a mechanism will bring added value in creating a more credible fundamental rights policy within the european union. i hope, therefore, that the entire house will lend its support to this mechanism when we vote tomorrow. the other aspect relates to the right and the duty of this parliament continually to analyse the human rights situation in the member states and to be critical in expressing its views, including naming and shaming when necessary.
first of all, congratulations to mrs. kinga gál on her report. we now have a community of values and principles, reflected in a complex system of human rights protection, which includes the charter of fundamental rights, the most modern codification of fundamental rights at the regional level. member states must comply with the provisions of the charter when applying union law. the provisions of the charter are directly applicable to national courts, which thus also acquire a great deal of responsibility. secondly, we have the european convention and the case law of the strasbourg court. they are a guarantee of individual rights in the member states, and the union's accession to the convention will ensure the application of the european convention on human rights in relation to and in relation to the actions of the union institution or of a member state applying union law. of course, we must look at the reform of the court in strasbourg and its effects on the shortening of procedures. at national level, the third level, member states have the obligation and the opportunity to directly implement the provisions guaranteeing fundamental rights, to apply them at home, through the decisions of their own institutions. so legal and institutional mechanisms are in place. the key word is swift and effective implementation for the victim. and another key word is coordinating the institutions that decide violations and grant reparations.
in writing. the european union, as a community of states that ensure a high level of protection of human rights, always raises its voice forcefully against serious violations in other parts of the world. the european parliament is normally exemplary in its condemnation of practices that flout the universal principles of human rights, wherever they occur in the world. but it is less common to respond decisively to violations of human rights in the union, even though this is the most effective message to be sent to states that do not respect human rights around the world. the greatest impact of joint action by the union would be achieved if we did not express our dissatisfaction with the application of human rights and fundamental freedoms with the same harshness and tolerance for contradiction in our own territory. very rarely do we take account of the principles that are an integral part of the european idea and that have been legally binding for a year now through the charter of fundamental rights. if this happens, we will appear weak and helpless in the absence of appropriate sanctions. this inevitably affects the strength and credibility of our judgments vis-à-vis third countries and our foreign policy efforts to promote human rights and democracy, i think that europe cannot afford to give up these things in the future either.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the protection of citizens, in practice mostly women, subjected to or at risk of violence is very high on the agenda of all the institutions working on this subject at the moment. it is important that it be on the agenda because we share the same objective: providing protection for victims in the best possible conditions across the borders of the eu. that is also why i have supported the aim of this protection from the outset, and that is the reason why i am preparing the ambitious package on victims’ rights to be adopted in spring 2011. i am fully aware of the work of the co-rapporteurs, ms jiménez-becerril barrio and ms romero lópez, and of both the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, who have added a lot of value to the ongoing work in order to improve the protection of victims. i look at some of the proposals you have made: for instance, that victims do not have to bear the costs, that they receive translation and interpretation services or that delays in the recognition procedures are reduced. i am ready to work on an effective and legally sound mechanism designed to help victims benefit from civil law protection measures across the european union. we have been working on the procedural rights for persons who are accused. the corollary of this is that we work on the rights of persons who have been victims, because we very often speak about the accused in court proceedings but forget that there has been a victim, so we have to ‘re-put’ the victim at the centre of attention. that is why the commission’s future victims package will build on and develop the excellent work undertaken by the spanish presidency, the belgian presidency, the council and, of course, the european parliament. all this work is very important. it will be put together so that when the victims package is on the table it will be comprehensive, it will be complete and it will make a real difference to all victims – be they women, children or men, although most are women and children – to enable us to quickly come up with concrete measures which are applicable and do not create legal uncertainty. thank you for this work. it is going to be taken into consideration when we prepare the victims package.
on behalf of the epp group. in spain, some 8 000 romanians have benefited this year as victims of protection orders valid on spanish territory. they should be extended to romania or other member states to which they travel. according to unofficial estimates, in europe, some 100 000 women have protection orders valid in the issuing state. the draft directive changes the limited, territorial nature of the protection measures. the instrument is introduced whereby a protection order issued in one member state will be recognised in the member states to which the victim travels, so that the area of freedom, security and justice is real and victims of violence or other victims can live and travel without fear. parliament's will is for extended protection for victims. that is why, after this directive, we ask the commission and expect the commission to take the next step to extend the protection of victims in this common area of justice and security and we look forward to and look forward to the package in spring 2011. finally, i would like to say again that the epp group supports the protection of victims, supports this draft directive and supports the extended protection of victims.
in writing. in romania, cases of domestic violence are estimated at 1 200 000 per year, but only 1% of victims have the courage to report to the authorities. the tension, scandal, and frequent family fights turn family members into traumatized souls who are forced to accept this situation as a state of normality. violence affects the normal and harmonious development of the child. studies show a 75% passing of violent behavior from one generation to the next. stockholm syndrome must be treated, but not by sick reforms, as is done in romania. proactive action is needed to combat this phenomenon, amendment of the legislative framework in this area, dialogue and cooperation between all state institutions with responsibilities in this area and civil society. in this regard, the european protection order must be a powerful instrument capable of offering a safer life to victims of violence across the borders of the member states. it will also include protection against violence committed by a group of persons and will apply to all victims of crime, such as victims of trafficking in human beings, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, honour killings, incest, gender-based violence, as well as witnesses, victims of terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. – the phenomenon of organised crime is something that the european union needs to tackle head on. we need to be seen as proactive rather than reactive to situations of human trafficking. it is important that we research new emerging ways of human trafficking, in order to intercept and pre-empt emerging human trafficking routes. as a member of the s&d group i would like to emphasise that one of our key objectives is to fight cross-border crime. therefore i voted in favour of this legislative initiative. as legislators of the european union, we must ensure respect for the right to human dignity, the right to integrity, prohibition of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and the prohibition of slavery and forced labour. we cannot allow the trafficking and subsequent auctioning of children to continue. traffickers are also using internet recruitment. this is very alarming as many children have access to the internet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive. the proposal for a directive amends another 2003 directive to allow beneficiaries of international protection (in particular refugees) to be entitled to a long-term residence permit in the eu if they have already been legally resident in the eu for at least five years. with this permit, they will enjoy similar rights to other citizens and will be able, for example, to move and settle in any eu country (except the uk, denmark and ireland). it also provides that these beneficiaries of international protection can still be expelled from the eu territory, but only under very strict rules, taking into account the principle of non-return and the rights granted mainly by the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. − the european union has accelerated its opening to the south caucasus since its expansion to the east of europe, when the region became strategically important for stability and security. europe now has a duty to the countries of the region, and its commitment is clear, especially given their proximity to the union's eastern border. beyond the economic and trade potential of these countries, the eu-georgia agreement on visa facilitation is also an encouragement for democracy in georgia. it is important that the eu exports the principles of good governance, fair justice and absolute respect for human rights. this will also be boosted by the two recent agreements with georgia, one on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the other on visa facilitation. the abolition of visa requirements for georgian citizens will mark an important step on the road to their rapprochement with europe. a visa facilitation regime is of great importance for people's lives, as it enhances people-to-people contacts and gives substance to the idea of free movement, one of the fundamental rights in the european union.
in writing. − i support the need to ensure a coordinated, coherent and visible eu response to disasters and therefore consider it important to develop eu civilian capabilities that are permanently available and act independently of military structures. i believe that the eu civil protection force should be an optimisation of the tools available, either in terms of disaster response training or in terms of disaster management through the development of initiatives in the framework of preparedness.
in writing. − a rapid response body in the event of an emergency would give greater coherence and efficiency to the european union's response to natural or accidental disasters. it is clear that the european union has responded swiftly to real needs in the wake of the devastating earthquake in haiti, but it is also clear that we need to learn from real situations and improve our performance every time. the earthquake in haiti was immediately followed by a period of confusion about who was to be in charge of coordinating the whole eu action. in the future, the eeas is expected to create a single crisis response, which will require the rationalisation of existing crisis platforms. establish clear responsibilities for each member state in the event of a disaster and prepare them logistically so that capabilities can be mobilised in the shortest possible time to the highest standards. the intervention in haiti showed that this type of action becomes effective when each state specialises in a particular service as was the case in france with its water treatment unit and italy with its complex medical unit.
in writing. − improving the effectiveness of the eu's existing disaster response capacity has proved necessary in many situations we have faced over the past few years, and i would just mention the catastrophic floods or forest fires that have hit several european countries. another example is the recent large-scale ecological disaster in hungary. no single state has the capacity to respond to such phenomena on its own; there is also a duty of solidarity between the states of the union. the report outlines the criteria that a rapid reaction force must meet and also the conditions that it would need to carry out its work.
in writing. − chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear risks are a new challenge for society, and also a new basis for possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters or pandemics. i would like to welcome mrs gomes' report, because it is a report which can lay the foundations for a proper response mechanism in the event of a disaster. we need to take into account in the process of re-evaluating the eu cbrn action plan and the suggestions from parliament, with the aim of improving the core areas that enhance security in the event of such risks. i agree that the exchange of good practice with countries that have developed an expertise mechanism in cbrn risk assessment, prevention, detection, communication and response is essential. i think it is important to stress the need to maintain well-managed reserves to ensure that disaster response resources, whether medical equipment or other relevant types of equipment, are fully functional, modern and up to date. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it proposes effective measures in the field of the prevention, control and management of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) incidents. it is very important that this report promotes the idea of a cbrn rapid response mechanism in the event of a disaster in one of the member states and, moreover, that this mechanism will be based on a joint response from all the members of the union. the report also suggests the creation of joint european rapid reaction teams, composed of military, police and medical personnel, to respond effectively to chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear disasters.
in writing. − chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) risks give a new dimension to possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics, because of their transnational nature and the high number of victims they cause. an appropriate response to such a hazard does not only include ex-post intervention programmes, but must be provided for much earlier, in the stages of handling these materials, appropriate storage, limited access and control, etc. at the same time, post-incident interventions require extensive cooperation between the different authorities in a member state (civil protection, military, police, etc.) as well as between the national authorities of the different member states and the eu bodies. a coordinated approach is therefore needed for all types of disasters. i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission and the council to review and strengthen the action plan rapidly in line with the recommendations made in it and to ensure the swift implementation of the plan, given that accidents or cbrn attacks pose serious threats to the security of the inhabitants of the european union and can disrupt vital infrastructure and the normal functioning of societies in one or more member states, regardless of borders.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to strengthen governance at several levels in order to better involve subnational authorities in the policy-making phase. i believe that the interests of citizens will be much better represented if the regional or local level is involved in the decision-making process from the outset. the european commission's role in overseeing the way the structural funds are managed is also unquestionable. however, this ec audit role needs to be strengthened.
in writing. − over the last few decades, the decentralisation of authorities in several member states has led to a significant strengthening of the powers of local and regional authorities in community policy-making. the emphasis on the pre-legislative stage in the decision-making process and the added value of policies and best practices applied at local and regional level for the development of eu territorial strategies contribute to ensuring their effectiveness and sustainability. the following issues need to be considered when considering how to improve the multi-level governance approach in cohesion policy: the vertical and horizontal dimensions of governance, the creation of real partnerships with local and regional authorities, territorial cohesion and cooperation, simplification of rules at community and national level (member states should simplify national provisions and create a stronger evaluation culture at all levels, in order to ensure effective controls and avoid errors 11% of funds were wrongly reimbursed in 2008). the role of the commission in supporting regional and local authorities needs to be strengthened, with a close examination of how to improve governance and thus the effectiveness of the structural funds management system in the period after 2013.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe it brings important improvements in the management of immigration flows in the european union. the enhanced mandate of immigration liaison officers in third countries will make frontex as a whole more efficient by enabling it to rely on their information and assistance. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's human rights policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's human rights policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the european union has for many years needed clear rules and procedures on the rights of legal workers from third countries. such a set of rules is necessary for at least two reasons. thus, even if we should give preferential treatment to community workers, legal workers participate in the economic life of the member states and are entitled to protection and guarantees; they should be seen as an asset to the eu economy and not as a threat to european workers. secondly, such clear rules would contribute to better control of migration - if we avoid such rules, we encourage illegal migration, undeclared work and all the consequences of these phenomena. i regret the rejection of the report and ask the commission to come back with a new proposal.
in writing. − one of the best ways to combat irregular immigration and illegal labour is to develop legal immigration channels that are balanced and adapted to the needs of the labour markets in our countries. economic immigration is a reality that we must organise, but it is also a necessity if we are to respond to the demographic and economic challenges that the economic union will face in the near future. immigration policy must be conceived as a tool to regulate our labour needs, thus contributing to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. union law does not limit the competence of member states to organise their own social security schemes. in the absence of harmonisation at union level, the legislation of each member state should lay down the conditions under which social security benefits are granted, as well as the amount of such benefits and the period for which they are granted. however, when exercising that competence, member states should comply with union law. working conditions, including remuneration, dismissal, health and safety at work, working time, leave and disciplinary measures, must also be respected, taking into account the general collective agreements in force.
in writing. − domestic violence is a violation of fundamental human rights and can affect anyone, regardless of religion, colour or social status. romania has a 35% increase in domestic violence in 2009 compared to 2008, and in 2010 it is found that the number of domestic violence cases is increasing. cases of domestic violence are estimated at 1 200 000 per year, but only 1% of victims have the courage to report to the authorities. the european protection order must be a powerful instrument capable of offering a safer life to victims of violence across the borders of the member states. it will also include protection against violence committed by a group of persons and will apply to all victims of crime, such as victims of trafficking in human beings, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, honour killings, incest, gender-based violence, as well as witnesses, victims of terrorism and organised crime. member states should continue to provide legal protection, limit the grounds for refusing to recognise or reject a european protection order, set a deadline of 20 days for the execution of an order and clarify the position on victims moving from one member state to another.
in writing. − the establishment of a coordinating position at eu level for actions to combat trafficking in human beings would bring more coherence to the fight against modern slavery. cooperation between states on this issue, especially at union level, is good, but the reintegration of victims of trafficking in human beings into society is often overlooked. it is clear that education and prevention actions must be concentrated in the less developed states of the european union, where large sections of the population are vulnerable due to material shortages. in order to have a better and more accurate picture of the phenomenon, harmonised data should be collected which should include data on the number of persons trafficked, including data on the sex, age, nationality of the victims, as well as the form of trafficking, the type of services in which the victims were employed, the number of traffickers arrested, charged and convicted and the mechanisms for referring these cases to the national asylum authorities. the scale of the trafficking phenomenon is now very large, but in the absence of accurate data centralised at eu level, its true scale is unknown.
in writing. − trafficking in human beings is an underground phenomenon with global dimensions, a serious violation of human rights, a social phenomenon with consequences for the whole of society. the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings involves strategic risks to stability and socioeconomic development, leading to: destabilisation of the labour market; the development and diversification of organised crime; economic destabilisation through the scale of money laundering; demographic destabilisation; increased corruption in the public sector; destabilisation of domestic economic investment. in romania, about 780 victims were registered in 2009, of which at least 416 were victims of forced labour and at least 320 victims of forced prostitution; of the victims identified last year, 176 were children trafficked for forced labour and prostitution. member states must provide funds for the assistance and protection of victims, including for compensation to victims and for the cross-border enforcement of eu anti-trafficking law. in the case of child victims, the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration and the penalties for traffickers must be more severe. the amendments will create a hostile environment for traffickers, protect victims and make the prevention of trafficking more rigorous, because fundamental rights must be respected.
in writing. − the adoption of the territorial, social and economic cohesion package has a key role to play in defining the priorities and objectives of the european union, ensuring human and economic development and promoting solidarity between member states. i support the importance of promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion through infrastructure development in order to contribute to the success of the eu 2020 strategy, as the new strategy will address the bottlenecks to economic development. competitiveness can also only be achieved by promoting research, innovation, technological development and the availability of appropriate high-quality vocational training programmes for european citizens. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that cohesion policy has proved to be an effective tool for responding flexibly to the socioeconomic challenges generated by the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − the report highlights the achievements of cohesion policy, which is indispensable for the successful implementation of the eu 2020 strategy as a tool for eliminating disparities between regions. for the period 2007 to 2013, some €86 billion was allocated to research and innovation. in the coming programming period, successful models in the 'knowledge triangle' need to be promoted and applied to ensure the sustainable development of the regional strategic framework programmes for research and innovation. the rapporteur calls on the european commission to come forward with concrete proposals for the definition and consistent implementation of the territorial cohesion objective, stressing the importance of the principle of decentralisation down to the level of local authorities (bottom-up approach) in order to improve the absorption of funds (it is counterproductive for the regions to administer on average only 30.5% of the total budget allocated to cohesion policy, with the rest being administered by central governments). the partnership principle must therefore be significantly strengthened in the future. the report recommends that member states and the ec pay greater attention to supporting major projects covering two or more operational programmes with a major impact at european level: generating added value, creating high-quality jobs and protecting the sustainable development of regions.
president of the commission. − this is, basically, not a commission competence but baroness ashton’s competence as high representative. she is developing this kind of action with our main partners. at the last summit with president obama, we put our cooperation in terms of cyber security on the agenda. this is an important issue, not only for nato but also for our bilateral relations with the united states. we are working on that. we believe there are serious cyber-security threats. some member states – i presume your country also – have already been subject to cyber attacks. we believe this is an important concern. we have to address it at european level also, but this is a matter where member states have some responsibilities. the high representative is developing efforts to establish a coherent approach to cyber-security problems. i fully support those efforts.
president of the commission. − i fully agree with the concern that you have expressed. this is exactly the line we are developing. not so long ago, the european union witnessed cyber attacks against public and private organisations in estonia and in lithuania, in 2007 and 2008 respectively. thousands of cyber attacks are committed daily against european union institutions and other public authorities. the commission recently responded to this alarming situation by proposing, on 30 september, a proposal for a directive on attacks against information systems, repealing the relevant framework decision from 2005. the overall goal of the directive is to combat large-scale attacks originating from and/or targeting the european union. we are very attentive to these concerns, and we believe that the proposal for a directive is a good one. it penalises the users of tools such as botnets for committing the offences, and introduces a higher level of sanctions for committing the offences. it introduces an obligation for member states to respond to an urgent request from both the public and the private sector via the 24/7 network of contact points within eight hours of receiving the request, and introduces a monitoring obligation for member states to facilitate the collection and provision of data about cyber attacks, including the number of prosecutions and criminal reports.
president of the commission. − i can give you some information on the legal aspects of this case, without prejudging the position, of course, because i am not a tribunal and cannot make a decision on that. first of all, mr assange was taken into custody by the british authorities on the basis of a european arrest warrant. the swedish prosecutor issued an advertisement notice regarding mr assange in the swedish system, the schengen system and via interpol, and that was the basis on which a european arrest warrant was issued. now, according to article 28 of the framework decision on the european arrest warrant, a person who has been surrendered pursuant to a european arrest warrant shall not be extradited to a third state without the consent of the competent authority of the member state which surrendered the person. this means that, since mr assange was taken into custody in the uk, the british authority competent to decide whether or not to surrender him to sweden would also have to give its prior consent to extradite him to a third country. this is the best explanation i can give of the legal aspects, but i cannot make any sort of presumption about the culpability or not of the individual in question.
president of the commission. − first of all, the commission has always respected fundamental rights and i absolutely reject any kind of criticism that the commission has been involved in any kind of violation of fundamental rights. that is not true. the commission has a completely clean record on that matter, and we are ready to work with the parliament in full transparency on all those matters. there are some matters that are the responsibility of the member states and they have to do their duty. the commission cannot replace the member states. we have a treaty, we have a responsibility, we have duties and we have rights. the commission has given this parliament all the cooperation it has requested – and in full transparency – on the matters that you have just mentioned.
president of the commission. − first of all we are not planning any kind of action against wikileaks. secondly, regarding the directives we have put forward, they are now going to be discussed with parliament. we have put proposals on the table to enhance cyber security. with regard to some of the issues that you want me to address in detail, i think it would be better to give you a briefing at expert level. i am sorry, i cannot give you specific answers in one minute, but my departments are fully available to you, if you so wish, to give you all the details about the way we see this important issue. but this is basically not a commission issue. this is something that happened in the united states, and which had an impact upon the global community using the internet, and it is a very serious and important issue. i am not underestimating the importance of it, but we have to be clear about what our areas of responsibility are. i am offering to provide, in an organised manner, those members of parliament who so wish with a complete briefing on the technical measures that we can take at european level.
i'd like to ask you a question about what happened recently, the attacks on visa, mastercard and paypal by hackers, in an attempt to sabotage their economic activities and cause financial losses. in these cyber attacks that created technical problems of varying severity, was the confidential data of the customers safe or was it vulnerable? that's the first question. because there's a possibility that alongside these ideological, cyber, or hacker attacks, there could be infiltration by hackers who are only after financial gain. i would like to know if this financial and personal information has been compromised and what are the ways and the actors involved in this context, if you currently have the situation under control and i would like to know if this problem is also on the table of the american and international authorities.
tomorrow's vote may complete the first procedure for approving the annual budget, in accordance with the lisbon treaty. it was obviously a difficult negotiation. parliament proposed extremely important political issues, the council refused to discuss them. parliament was initially very united in maintaining its position. the council was divided, but it had the advantage of unanimity and blocked reconciliation. today we are in a position to have a number agreement. the council and the commission have accepted the vast majority of the european parliament's requests in statements. it would have been much better to have an interinstitutional agreement, which would have provided more security for the future. unfortunately, parliament no longer has the same unity as when the negotiations began. consequence of the lack of iter funding. i think it's very important that we give the union the budget it needs in this time of crisis. there is time to agree on the remaining issues before the future financial perspective is approved. the council must understand that it is not in the union's interest that the main european policies are adopted by co-decision and that the financial means necessary for implementing these policies are decided by only one of the parties involved in budgetary cooperation. parliament must be equally involved in both the political and financial aspects.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after mr gauzès and a report like this, it is obviously a pleasure to be here with you, on behalf of the belgian minister for finance, didier reynders, on the day of the discussion of the amendment to the regulation on credit rating agencies. this is again, as you have just said, a financial services measure which the three institutions have just agreed on in record time. we welcome the fact that this agreement will be put to the vote in parliament tomorrow, as agreed, between the three institutions. the regulation will therefore be amended to give additional powers to the european securities and markets authority. this will allow the authority to exercise a closer control over the activity of credit rating agencies throughout the union. this is an important step which we also believe will help to improve the stability of financial markets and support the development of a much more effective supervisory framework. the authority will therefore, in particular, have powers as regards the registration and direct supervision of credit rating agencies as soon as the new regulation enters into force. it will also have the power to determine that a credit rating agency has committed an infringement of the applicable rules and the power to adopt appropriate sanctions. a framework for cooperation between the competent authorities in the member states and the european securities and markets authority is also, of course, provided for. but we are ready for a more in-depth debate on the question of the regulation of the credit rating agencies sector itself as soon as the commission presents its proposal on the overall review of this sector, which is scheduled for next year. while i hope, of course, that your vote tomorrow will be a positive one, i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the econ committee, mrs bowles, and of course mr gauzès, the rapporteur for parliament and their shadow rapporteur, and commissioner barnier, who, it is true, alongside the belgian minister for finance, didier reynders, has done a substantial job for six months, with quick agreements, which have been transformed here by real decisions in the financial sector. i am grateful for your fruitful and effective cooperation in this area. i dare imagine that you will continue this work in the future presidencies.
member of the commission. - mr president, hello to each and every one of you. as you have very well said, mr gauzès, and now on behalf of mr didier reynders, mr chastel, supervision, regulation, the large hedge fund and private equity sector, today, if you will, and tomorrow, this second stage of the regulation of rating agencies, ladies and gentlemen, objectively with you and thanks to you, thanks to the council and the initial work of the commission, in the field of regulation, europe is making real progress, indeed, and is learning from the crisis, as all taxpayers, who are also european citizens, are asking for. ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the supervision of credit rating agencies is an important step and i would like to thank you, mr gauzès, the chairman of the committee, sharon bowles, and the non-existent rapporteurs, wolf klinz, sven giegold, gianni pittella and ashley fox. in a few days' time this presidency will end with much success and progress, and i in turn would like to express my deep gratitude to didier reynders and his entire team for the quality of our relationship over these six months. this is a good agreement, although i must say that it would have been excellent if the final compromise had included the rules originally proposed by the commission for increased transparency in respect of structured finance instruments. but as stated in recitals to the regulation, we will come back to this subject if you will, when the regulation is next revised in 2011. this amendment to the 2009 regulation will, as mr chastel has just said, give esma, the new financial market authority, direct supervisory powers over credit rating agencies at european level as from next july. we must appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of this decision you are taking today. this is the first time that esma, the new european authority, has been given direct supervisory powers over financial institutions with transeuropean activities. this amendment completes the new european supervisory framework, it considerably strengthens the powers of esma, as you have very well said, mr gauzès, and as mr giegold, who is here, was keen to say during the debate on supervision. so this is a very important subject for you, it's also a very important subject for us. esma will become the institution responsible for registering and supervising credit rating agencies at union level and will exercise strong oversight. the legislation will give it all the supervisory powers deemed necessary to compel the rating agencies to comply with the provisions of the regulation. esma will be able to exercise oversight, i mean the power to request information, the power to conduct on-site inspections, and if esma finds that a credit rating agency is in breach, it will have to take the necessary steps to require the agency to stop that breach. esma will also have the power, under strictly defined rules, to impose fines and periodic penalty payments on credit rating agencies that fail to comply with the regulation. of course, this regulation also guarantees the rights of defence of credit rating agencies, including the right to be heard, access to documents and other procedural safeguards. finally, in exercising its supervisory power, esma will respect the rights recognised by the charter of fundamental rights and the other principles and provisions of european union law, including the principle of proportionality. the new cra regulation will also ensure a single point of contact for all cras, a harmonised regulatory framework in the european union, with equal treatment, a more consistent application of the rules for agencies across the european union. so i think that's a huge gain in efficiency, transparency and security in the overall architecture that we build week after week for smart oversight and effective regulation. i would perhaps like, mr president, to continue mr chastel's remarks without taking up too much of his time, and to talk about the next step, since i myself have said that we must go further in order to regulate credit rating agencies properly, while noting that it is not the agencies that are creating the problem and the turbulence in the financial markets. it is not the thermometer that causes the fever, but the thermometer must function properly, which was not the case in the past, and which we are curing, if i may say so, by means of these successive regulations. the commission already has the next step in mind, a public consultation was launched on 5 november 2010 to broaden this debate, to gather the views of all the parties concerned and as you know, in all these regulations, these debates are not artificial. i would very much like to hear, ladies and gentlemen, all the contributions, criticisms and ideas that have been put forward in these consultations. we are already thinking about, first, the consequences of the issuer-pays model among rating agencies, second, the reliance of banks and other institutional investors on credit ratings, third, the rating of sovereign debt - not an easy issue - fourth, the increase in transparency to better manage conflicts of interest and finally, to create more competition, more diversity in this market of rating agencies, which is currently concentrated in too few hands. this consultation is open until next january and, on the basis of all the replies we receive and wolf klinz's own initiative report, we will take a decision in the course of 2011, but not too late, on the measures we want to implement to complete, in a third stage, these two regulations which are now virtually implemented in relation to the rating agencies.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, as a vice-chair of the committee on legal affairs, i would like to present some important aspects that were the subject of the debates and amendments tabled in this committee. firstly, at the present time payment for the structured instruments evaluated by the agencies is made by the issuing company. there can be conflicts of interest because the rated companies are interested in having a good rating. alternatively, it might be the users of ratings who pay. the users’ interests are more diverse and therefore there is not a single interest that can lead to a conflict of interest. there are users who prefer a good rating, for instance when they want to sell shares, and those who prefer a bad rating, for instance when they want to buy shares. secondly, the regime for the rating agencies could profit from the rules that have been established for the auditors. the rating agencies and auditors have a lot of responsibility for the good reputation of companies and the proper functioning of the market. auditors, however, seem to be subject to far stricter rules than the rating agencies. thirdly, the european securities and markets authority, esma, should have supervisory competence over the credit rating agencies in order to verify possible material discrepancies between the ratings given by different agencies for the same structured financial instrument. esma should also have greater power of enforcement. fourthly, the directive introduces a new principle, taken from the latest us legislation. when an agency other than the one contracted to make the valuation can do its valuation for the same instrument, it is subject to the contracted valuation. for this, the first agency must disclose certain information regarding the valuated instrument. in such a way, two beneficial effects are obtained – firstly, there is a second opinion and, secondly, the liability that falls on the contracted agency is reduced. finally, i want to underline the fact that the provisions of this directive, which represents a new regulatory frame, should only apply to the structured financial instruments, credit rating agencies themselves being an important part of structured finance. the remainder of the financial instruments, 150-year-old common shares or plain bonds which do not pose a systemic risk should not be part of this directive if you want to be tight but not to over-regulate, if you want to be competitive but not expensive in administrative costs, and if you want to hold capital in europe and not drive it away to the emerging markets abroad.
the amendments introduced by mr gauzès' report are intended to provide further details on the new esma's powers in relation to national bodies. i think the scope of the powers should be very clearly defined. in addition, financial market participants should be able to identify the competent authority in the field of activity of the agencies. i believe that the new european authority should be solely responsible for the registration and supervision of existing credit rating agencies. they should be able to consult information on financial instruments rated by competitors. access to websites should also be granted only if the confidentiality of the information requested can be guaranteed. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the registration of a credit rating agency by a competent authority and its validity throughout the eu.
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to give a precise but brief reply to all the speakers, whom i thank. first of all, mr bodu, i naturally share your view on the risks of the issuer-payer model. i myself have mentioned this in my speech earlier. so this is a subject that is part of our consultation in the future proposal, the third stage. we will also, and i say this to mr fox and to mrs băsescu, return to the question of structured products. mr fox, i understand your concern about security in this exchange of information and we will ensure that security, but we will come back to that. and we will also continue to rely on the expertise of esma in this area, it is a matter of efficiency for us. mr. pittella, thank you for your encouragement. i think it is good that you, like mr klute or mrs gáll-pelcz, have stressed the importance of this new supervisory authority. there are still difficult issues to deal with, which we have identified well and which you yourself have very rightly mentioned: the lack of competition in this sector, the issue of sovereign risk rating, which mr kelly has just mentioned and which is a particular problem. we will take these ideas into account in the new consultation phase. i share mr klinz's view on the importance of sanctions and esma's ability to impose them. mrs regner also raised this point. on the question of the third country, mr klinz, the aim is not to weaken the rigor of our requirements, and i say this also to mr mitchell, who spoke of the credibility of europe in relation to these decisions which must be taken. thank you to mr giegold for his positive assessment of the progress we have made together today. as for the recruitment of the heads of the european authorities, i cannot, of course, give precise information on names at the moment, but i would like to tell you, mr giegold, as i did to mr martin, that the procedure is under way, that it is being conducted in all objectivity, and that, in my view, the criteria on which the choice must be made are those of competence and independence. i would also like to tell mrs regner that the agencies will be strengthened. from the very first teams, they will develop according to the skills they have been given and those they will be given. we are concerned about the credibility of the agencies' work in terms of resources and skills. mr. klute, thank you for your comments. you clearly identify the problems that remain to be dealt with and i am aware, as i have told several members, that these issues will have to be dealt with thoroughly. that is why the idea of dealing with the question of regulating the agencies in three stages seems to me to be constructive and positive. mr balčytis, the agencies - i said it myself - do not create the problems. all they have to do is evaluate them correctly and the thermometer works properly. and when it comes to products, companies, states, we have the right, given the importance of these ratings, to wait, to take the means to get an evaluation, an objective and credible rating. i think that from this point of view, mr balčytis, esma will have a role which you should not underestimate. i also reply to mr szegedi that, as far as the level of sanctions is concerned, the specifications of esma, with the text you are going to adopt, are clear, and that esma will apply these sanctions with a view to proportionality. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you in advance for your vote in favour of this new stage, which will show, i repeat once again, that europe is making real, objective progress and is learning from the crisis, thanks to the support and the impetus of the belgian presidency and thanks to the support of all the groups in the european parliament.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that many good questions have been asked in this debate. commissioner barnier took them one after the other. i would simply like to say that this amendment, this regulation amendment is a first step in giving the necessary supervisory powers to the european securities and markets authority, that further revisions - we have talked about this - of this regulation will take place in the near future, and i believe that on this issue, and on many other important issues, moreover, which have been raised today, this will really be the occasion to bring the whole debate together in the revision that the commission is about to propose to us. i would like to return to the same subject for a moment - commissioner barnier himself mentioned it earlier - on the abolition of the provisions on the transparency of credit ratings and the information underlying them. i think that this does not mean at all that the european institutions do not support the idea of transparency of credit ratings, quite the contrary. but at this stage, when a decision had to be taken, the best solution was to coordinate in advance on the basis of developments on the international scene so as not to disrupt the competitiveness of european markets. and so, for the moment, better solutions to this question are still being researched, discussed, studied and we believe that the best political compromise is the one which is put to you for a vote tomorrow. in conclusion, i would like to point out that this is therefore an important step - as many of you have pointed out - which will help to improve the stability of financial markets and support the development of a more effective supervisory framework.
in writing. by underestimating credit risk, rating agencies were one of the triggers of the global financial crisis. on the other hand, there is no real competition from the rating agencies. this increases the risk of conflicts of interest and, consequently, of a lack of transparency and quality in the rating of different financial instruments. on 1 january 2011, the regulation establishing a european securities and markets authority will enter into force, with the main responsibility for supervising this type of agency. the establishment of an eu-wide monitoring and supervisory mechanism for credit rating agencies is necessary. i believe that this new authority must exercise its mandate immediately after its creation and i would point out that the decision of the united states to introduce stricter rules of supervision has opened the way to international harmonization.
member of the commission. − mr president, can i first say thank you very much for the many kind comments, including those of chris davies although i know even less than he about football so i could not follow the picture, but i guess it was a positive one! several have asked about the 30%. how are we now stepping up, where is this process and, linda mcavan said, what are the prospects? i think all of you here know what the process is now. we are now doing the analysis of individual member states: what are the problems, what are the challenges, what are the co-benefits, what can we do? then we will also have a discussion on the 2050 low-carbon strategy that we will present by march – including, as i said, the 2030 target because, if we know where we are going to be by 2050, it is also very clear that there are some trade-offs involved. the less we have done by 2020, the more we have to do afterwards, and the more likely that it will be expensive. that is the kind of discussion we are trying to get here in the spring, and i am pleased to see that more and more member states have started to hold this discussion among themselves and also come forward with different signals on how they see this. chris davies asked about 2050 and the 50% and some other things that were not there. that was very much dealt with in a special group with some ministers discussing the shared vision. the swedish minister was one of the two ministers leading that group and i can say for sure that europe was trying to push this very hard. you all know why it is difficult to achieve this, but that is one of the topics we still need to have on the table on our way forward to south africa. it will have to be on the agenda. ms del castillo mentioned that cancún has learned from copenhagen. i would say yes, but mostly perhaps in the sense that people realised in the last 24 hours that if they did not show the will to compromise there would be a real risk of not getting anything done, and the whole process would risk dying. that argument was not just a tactical thing, but was a real thing in the room where people knew that this would probably be the last chance for many of them to save the only process where everybody was sitting around the table. there was quite a lot of pressure there because of the experience in copenhagen to show the necessary political will in mexico. one could ask what exactly the eu is going to do to strive for a deal in durban. i would say we will be doing the same as this year, where we have actually done a lot of outreach, a lot of proactive thinking, and also a lot of thinking about where the deal could be done. those of you who were there also know that many of the texts and much of the input were also due to a lot of european experts and a lot of european contributions, and we should do exactly the same this coming year. we should also build on what has been achieved in the cartagena process in which 25 countries – developing and developed countries alike – really want to move forward. we will continue that work. we gained a lot of benefit from having this process in cancún, because we were coordinating a lot across different regional groups. that will be one of the first things: we will try to get people together in the cartagena group and work there with them, as well as working with a lot of others. then there was the question about the treaty that should replace the kyoto protocol. it is not there yet because the world does not agree on it, but this is definitely not because of the european union. i would re-state that, had it not been for the european union signalling its willingness to taking a second commitment period, had we said the same as other kyoto parties in cancún, then any prospect of having a legally binding deal by now would have been dead. finally, ms morkūnaitė was asking if we did not expect a bit more from cancún, and i would say no, actually not. in the last hours there i sat with a check list. sometimes you should take care not to get carried away when you are taking part in something. you think that when you can get some things done maybe you could also get other things done that you knew before you left home you would never get. when i sat with that check list i must say that the list of elements we wanted to see in there was in there. of course, there are always things that you do not get, but in truth we knew, for instance, that the second commitment period could not be for cancún, so we just wanted to save the prospect of having it and continuing to build on what we have. an adaptation framework, a technology framework, a forestry framework, all the elements from the copenhagen accord, the prospect of still having a legally binding deal and some substantial progress on mrv/ica and a number of other issues, plus the fact that we now have all parties subscribing to the view that we have not all delivered enough together – i think that if we had discussed that result as we did before we left for cancún most of you would probably have agreed that it would be a good outcome. a final word. now we have to think very carefully about the strategy for the way ahead. many of us will need a break for christmas and the new year, but early next year we should continue the very strong dialogue between council, commission and the european parliament and come back to one another after we have done some reflecting and have digested the outcome of cancún. as i said at the beginning, it is going to be a very difficult year, but we should build on the experiences we had here. if europe sets a clear strategy, then we can actually move things in the right direction, and although that is not going to be less challenging for durban i am sure that we can do this. maybe we just need a rest first and then come back to the dialogue in early 2011.
acting president of the council. - the president, ladies and gentlemen, and the commissioner, thank you for the many positive reactions we have had to the agreement reached in cancún. you all know that cancún is a pragmatic but very important step in climate policy and the climate debate. you know that the council conclusions adopted last october continue to take as a starting point the need to reach a global legally binding agreement in the long term. but we all knew, and this was decided in advance, that it would be impossible to conclude that global deal in mexico now. that is why we have gone for a number of balanced sharing agreements. there are, and as the commissioner said, the points which we considered important to achieve that balance from the european union also emerged from the cancún conference. it is also the european union's merit that there was a very clear and transparent position, a position which was translated into the council conclusions and also defended by one vote. i am sure that the commission and the european parliament have all contributed very well to the announcement of this position and that the council has also done everything possible to ensure that we have been able to explain as much as possible. sometimes it was really necessary to emphasize that again: what is the meaning of these conclusions, what is the european union's position on these points? we were the bridge builders, we had a lot of positive reactions in mexico itself to the fact that the european union had taken the lead, that we were really trying to bring different different points of view closer together. we have played that role well and i think the whole world has seen that too. it is true, madam commissioner, that we must now reflect on some things, but that does not mean that we must move forward fairly quickly and i can tell you that we will have a first exchange of views on the results of cancún in the council on monday. i think it is also good that there is already a first exchange of views here in parliament. but it is true that we must define the strategy definitively and as soon as possible. we have also decided in the council to resume the debate on the minus 30% in the spring. we have asked the commission to carry out a further screening of what that minus 30% would mean at member state level, and the council has agreed to resume the debate on that in the spring. finally, i would like to thank everyone once again for the cooperation and in particular commissioner connie hedegaard for the very pleasant and constructive cooperation, as well as all your services for the excellent work done in cancún. without the good cooperation of everyone, this would not have been possible and the european union would not have been able to put such a clear stamp on the agreement reached in cancún. so thank you very much for that.
in writing. after long negotiations, the united nations climate change conference in cancun concluded with a positive compromise. the result is not a record, but it is an important step towards tackling climate change. progress has been made on all the chapters that appear for the first time in a un document. i welcome the decisions taken as they will facilitate the progress of the negotiations in the next period and ensure important progress, in particular on the components targeting developing countries and those most exposed to the effects of climate change. they also advocate closing the gap between developed countries and underdeveloped areas through financial and technical assistance. i consider this summit to be a crucial moment in which our negotiators have paved the way for an agreement to be concluded next year in durban, south africa. i would like to congratulate the european parliament delegation on their efforts and on their success.
member of the commission. − the commission is trying to get as much information and feedback as possible and to set up a statistical base on all health issues. naturally, our level of accuracy depends a lot on the response and feedback that we receive from the various member states. i agree that we should continue to seek information and to see how health, especially the health of women, is affected by poverty. but health and poverty are interrelated; this is not gender based. in fact we find that health is usually at risk in areas of poverty. we are also taking action vis-à-vis the elderly. as you know, the commission has now launched an initiative, namely the innovative partnerships. the first pilot project on this innovative partnership will be healthy and active ageing. i am sure that this will affect the health of our citizens of both genders.
today, in the european union, there are 120 million citizens who are at risk of poverty. women are clearly hit hard by the economic crisis and are more at risk of poverty, especially in the case of single-parent families. due to the economic crisis, health systems are suffering greatly, budgets are being reduced and even important institutions in this sector have been closed. i would like to ask you what measures you are considering to ensure that early detection measures for cervical or breast cancer will be available to all women, regardless of their social or material status and, above all, that we will benefit from a fair health system with good quality services throughout the european union.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank you for the comments and for drawing attention to other funds apart from those i already mentioned: the microfinance facility, the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund. they can also play a role, the latter especially in cases of unexpected mass redundancies which particularly affect people in manufacturing industry but can affect other industries as well. we certainly believe that these funds are helpful and we believe they need secure funding for the next financial period or the next programming period, because unfortunately even if prosperity is coming we will have to anticipate significant redundancies in certain cases due to restructuring and cross-border relocations. we have to be attentive to specific cases. there is now an emerging divide within the european union – a kind of dualism – with a core region where there is already gdp and job growth, but also countries like greece and ireland that continue to struggle under the pressure of the financial market. i recently held personal negotiations with minister katseli in which we discussed how the european social fund could be used more effectively in greece. there have been several reasons in the recent past, including the crisis itself, difficulties in co-financing and certain administrative difficulties that made it difficult to draw from the social fund in a robust way, but i can assure you that my services are working very hard and very closely with the greek managing authority to find appropriate funding opportunities from the esf in this period. i believe it really helps if we manage to fund in the appropriate way. it is true that in emergency situations it is even more difficult and there is a need and also the room to restructure available esf funding. for the longer term, i think we have to tailor the social fund in a way that can be more effective in specific situations and in counterbalancing the impact of uneven economic development inside the union, which has already manifested itself in terms of demography as well, triggering migration flows that may not have been sufficiently appreciated in the previous period. we will pay attention to this and connect that with labour market trends.
vice-president of the commission. − this is one of my favourite topics, by the way, which is why i am going to consider all legislative and non-legislative measures to redress the persistent inequalities in decision-making. the latest figures are not very positive, which is why we really need to do something – most of all because the figures persistently remain at the same non-positive level. this is one of the five priorities of the commission strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015, which i have already presented in this house, and i have also already announced that it would be good to have more women on boards and in management. that is why we need to speak with those who have responsibility. i will invite the leaders of the big listed companies to sit around a table in march to promote a dialogue with stakeholders in the business sector to get things moving. if things do not move, i will move to have targeted initiatives to improve the situation. on the question of data collection and the dissemination of comparable data, we know perfectly well that there also a deficiency here. we do now have the gender equality agency in vilnius, so we can start to rely on more serious data, comparable data and in particular a database on women and men in decision-making, and regular reporting. it is true that the lack of a high-quality care infrastructure is one of the reasons, but not the only one, why so few women are in decision-making posts, so we will have a look at the member states’ performance here. over the period 2007-2013, half a billion euros will be available from the structural funds to develop childcare facilities and another eur 2.4 billion to fund measures to facilitate women’s access to employment and to reconcile work and family, including access to childcare. when you hear me saying this, you will understand that i am not very impressed by what many member sates are doing at the level of childcare, so this is also high on the political agenda. my colleague, mr andor, looks at these figures and actions in the europe 2020 strategy, and i really am convinced that member states should step up their efforts in this area.
although more than 55% of university graduates are women, they are not found in leadership positions, either in public institutions or in companies. and then there's this 17% pay gap between men and women. i would ask you to consider some consistent programmes and even more rigorous control by the member states of childcare facilities. without reconciling work and family life, we will not be able to motivate young mothers to pursue a professional career, so as to secure them a leadership position.
between 50 and 125 million european citizens are affected by energy poverty. that's why we think that energy-saving and energy-efficient policies in this area, social housing, should be a priority. only one percent of the buildings that will exist in 2020 will be new buildings. that is why, when we talk about existing buildings, we cannot talk about mandatory targets without allocating adequate financial resources. we therefore believe that innovative financing schemes and tax incentives are needed to make energy efficiency investments attractive and to provide long-term institutional support. commissioner, a meeting of concerto took place recently in parliament, after five years of this programme. unfortunately, the 400 representatives of local and regional authorities said that it was not known at local and regional level that it was possible for all member states to use 4% of the european regional development fund's national allocation for energy efficiency in buildings. i therefore conclude, commissioner, by asking you to use the mid-term evaluation to allocate more funding to energy efficiency programmes and, in particular, to promote the possibility of using up to 15% of the european regional development fund for energy efficiency in the future financial perspective.
i would also like to stress the importance of promoting energy efficiency it brings significant benefits to the whole economy. social benefits, including the creation of new jobs by 2020, should also be mentioned. i believe that the development and commercialisation of new, cutting-edge energy technologies is indispensable. the competitiveness of european energy-consuming businesses in the context of global competition must be maintained. support agreement on a common methodology for measuring national energy efficiency targets and monitoring progress. i also welcome the work of the commission 'towards a single energy network'. it should make concrete proposals to simplify and speed up the authorisation procedures for infrastructure projects.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i agree with mr swoboda that implementation is on the ground, regional and local. in fact, we have had a variety of, mostly good, experiences in the member states with restructuring programmes - often with one euro from a public budget, with the effect that six or seven euros are added by private investment commitments. we will also have to consider whether our regional programmes are suitable for this. i can hardly imagine a municipality applying directly to the commission for money, but opening up regional programmes more to the energy renovation of existing buildings seems to me to be a very important step for the next financial period at the latest. then there is the question of interest rate reduction. we are not going to use public structural banks to reduce the interest rates on loans for the renovation of buildings. on the subject of existing buildings, i would like to point out one thing: it has been said many times that increasing energy efficiency saves money. that's true, but not right away. if we look at the housing stock in europe, we have an average renovation requirement per apartment from windows to active and passive insulation to appropriate electrical appliances and appropriate heating optimizations of between 30,000 and 60,000 euros per apartment. you don't save that money in the first year. so that means we need to invest in the next 10 years so that in the next 40 years, we can reduce energy expenditure and reinvest. basically, a reverse contract of generations. my generation has incurred enormous debts, as is shown by the currency problems. now, for the first time, we have the opportunity to invest in energy efficiency so that we and our children can see the return of lower energy expenditures in the decades ahead. are we capable of that? are we ready for this? i'm betting on you. we must set new priorities in budgetary matters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're not just gonna get more money. where do we want to change? this will be the decisive question on this subject at the european budgetary level as well. secondly, two colleagues, mr jadot and mr eickhout, said that the basic line was clear, but it is not clear. and i have the decisions of the european council on the table. by the way, the latest decision of the european council in march of this year, literally 'and moving towards 20 per cent increase in energy efficiency' is already a little less consistent. so to go in the direction of 20%, that means that 18, 19, 17% would be sufficient. i am sticking to 20%, unchanged, although the european council decided for the first time in march to make some concessions. the march 2007 decision refers to projections of 2020 energy consumption from which 20% should be deducted. the institute which advises europe on its studies is primes. let me give you three columns of numbers, and you'll see what we have to solve here for problems that haven't been raised before: energy consumption in italy in million tonnes 2007 the projection for 2020 is up to 208 and then minus 20%. italy will then be back to where it was. you raise the projection and take 20 percent off. or a very small country, luxembourg, with energy consumption in 2007: 4.6 million tons. the forecast demand goes up to 5.6, then down to 4.5. or portugal: 23.8 in the reference year, rising to 30 and falling to 24. we need to talk about the projection. this is the crucial point that has been missing in the whole debate so far, country by country. you speak of commitment in many of your statements. i'm always an optimist and a realist. if we as the commission proposed a binding target for each member state, it would be rejected today by the member states, whose citizens we are also. i'm not going to. then we'd have nothing. perhaps a two-stage plan involving the member states is more realistic and appropriate. by telling member states to make national energy efficiency plans now, voluntarily, but the 20% applies to everything. if we see in two years' time that we are not making sufficient progress, we will announce binding targets. and then the member states probably cannot reject it. please consider whether this - also with the knowledge of your governments - may not be the better european way for our common objectives. whether mandatory or voluntary, national action plans are required. we can examine politically the content, the consequences and the effects of the plans. and we will certainly not accept a plan whose content does not meet our requirements. we reject it politically in any case. thank you for today. i shall be glad to come back to parliament in march and then formally open the debate with a proposal. the report is an excellent first step in this direction.
in writing. energy efficiency measures are essential if the eu is to achieve its climate change targets. we have a target of reducing energy consumption by 20%, but whereas for the other two targets we have directives that clearly state how the target will be achieved, for energy efficiency there is no such instrument. that is why i insist on the need for an energy efficiency directive. in addition, to achieve the desired results, energy efficiency needs to be promoted at all levels, in all national and european policies. innovation is one of the keys to success in this perspective, which is why i believe that the future research framework programme should make energy efficiency a priority. last but not least, i believe that public authorities need to set an example in this regard and transform the buildings they own into energy efficient buildings. moreover, member states may promote energy efficiency through requirements imposed in public procurement procedures. therefore, priority should be given to undertakings using less polluting technologies. finally, member states may stimulate demand for green products by tax measures or subsidies compatible with the internal market.
in writing. the european union must act to secure its energy future and protect its key energy interests. to this end, the role of energy efficiency measures is critical in ensuring that the climate and energy targets are achieved at the lowest cost. i believe that there is a need to launch broad consultations with local and regional representatives to set out well-defined directions in the field of energy efficiency and to provide support for the development of projects and access to the 9 billion euro made available by the commission through cohesion policy. by using these funds wisely, we will be able to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target, which will greatly contribute to the sustainability and competitiveness objectives in the european union. in addition, reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and will generate a significant reduction in imports (approximately 25-26%).
in writing. – the benefits of reducing energy consumption and dependence in europe would be at once economic, environmental and political. the energy efficiency action plan therefore has far-reaching implications. i was rapporteur for the opinion of the environment committee on the contribution of ict to energy efficiency, and i know that one of the most important tasks here is to facilitate the integration of renewable energy sources into the power supply. smart grids can help to achieve this, whilst smart metering in households can make us conscious of when we can save energy and so help us to reduce consumption. the commission needs to focus properly on these two elements in the action plan, and the member states need to give their full support to installing the infrastructure needed to make it happen, if necessary through public procurement contracts.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the other colleagues who have contributed to this dossier. although it had initially appeared to be a very technical dossier, in the end it was very clear that the political decision would find a solution for this report. there is a need to simplify the acqis communautaire by repealing those directives which contain provisions on means of measurement that are no longer used as a result of technical progress and the use of international standards. the commission’s approach is reasonable. if the mutual recognition principle ensures free movement and no specific barrier exists, then no further additions are needed and the technical specifications should be adopted by the member states. however, the repeal of the directive should not lead to any new barriers to free movement or to additional administrative burdens. we also need to ensure that there will be no gaps between the old directives being repealed and the 2004 directive on measuring instruments. furthermore, the first reading report adopted in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection enabled the inclusion of provisions on the measuring instruments covered by the directives being repealed in the general measurements instruments directive. the member states have been given more time to investigate whether the repealing of the directives will lead to legal uncertainty. the report includes a provision that the commission shall evaluate whether the measuring instruments falling within the scope of the repealed directives need to be included in the scope of the measurements instruments directive. taking account of the fact that a horizontal decision has been also taken regarding correlation tables, together with other shadow rapporteurs i propose to support the text agreed at the first reading with the council.
author. − mr president, the safety of toys is a subject of great importance, and not only because it is the time of year when sales of toys increase substantially. it is our duty as the representatives of eu citizens to ensure that we are looking after the best interests of consumers and protecting children. the revised directive 2009/48/ec is meant to assure consumers that toys sold in the eu fulfil the highest safety requirements worldwide, especially those relating to the use of chemical substances. market surveillance measures have been reinforced. the documentation which toy manufacturers and importers have to keep available for inspection now has to contain a detailed description of the design and manufacture of the toy, specific information on the components and materials used in the toy as well as an analysis of the hazards that the toy may present. however, concerns are raised by the scientific opinion of the scientific committee on health and environmental risks on the evaluation of the migration limits for chemical elements in toys, which states that the method used to measure the migration of chemical elements is not really reliable. we therefore require clarification of the calculation method chosen to regulate cmr – chemical substances in toys. there is also cause for concern regarding toys designed for children under the age of three. since this is the most vulnerable age group, toys designed for these children should be tested independently. the latest rapex reports also underline problems concerning market surveillance for toys. there are still a large number of toys entering the eu market that pose a high risk to the most vulnerable consumers. there are clear signals that the revised toy safety directive needs to be strengthened in order to assure the highest level of protection for our children. we consider that these issues need to be addressed as soon as possible, making sure that there are no loopholes following the implementation of the revised directive. we need to remain focused on toy safety, market surveillance and the prevention of the use of hazardous substances in products specifically designed for children.
to err is human. perseverance is diabolical. do you know who was the prime minister in greece, during whose government all those over-indebtedness occurred that led to the crisis in greece? papandreou was not sure. do you remember which political family that prime minister named karamanlis belonged to?
it is clear, as the previous speakers have said, that the european union has not yet made sufficient progress in ensuring the financial stability of its markets. in the context of speculators who daily threaten the stability of the single currency by means of isolation and pressure on the member states, the only solution is to maintain solidarity at european level. the creation of a permanent mechanism to ensure the financial stability of the euro area has thus become a necessity and will have to be coordinated through the community method. the interest of citizens is best safeguarded when the european institutions are fully involved in the decision-making process and when the general interest takes precedence over individual interests. at the same time, we must bear in mind that it is essential that all 27 member states be involved in this future mechanism within the single market. the instability of other currencies will always have a significant effect on the state of the euro.
in writing. the european council of 16 and 17 december will discuss and adopt the necessary measures to strengthen the economic pillar of economic and monetary union and to strengthen the eu's financial stability. in this context, the measures needed to ensure that the european banking system is able to finance the european economy and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises should also be considered. european citizens expect the european institutions to take stronger action, not just for financial stability, but above all for the return to sustainable economic growth. in 2008, 116 million european citizens were at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and the economic and financial crisis has increased this number, with young people and older people being the categories most at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the main concern of european citizens remains to keep their jobs and to ensure a decent living. the economic and financial crisis has had a major impact on national budgets and led to the deterioration of education, health and social protection systems. it is time for the eu to take the necessary steps to ensure sustainable economic growth by investing in an industrial policy that ensures job creation and competitiveness and by making adequate investments in research, education and health.
madam president, may i start by congratulating you on your contribution as the co-rapporteur of our committee on petitions. as you may know, the citizens’ initiative was a major priority for our s&d group. firstly, i would like to congratulate all four co-rapporteurs from the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on petitions on their joint work in delivering this remarkable report, as well as on the way in which they negotiated with the council and the commission to achieve such a good result. i would also like to mention the very special role played by the vice-president of the european commission, commissioner šefčovič, and his readiness, openness and commitment to negotiate with both the council and the parliament. i am glad to be voting today only a few months after the beginning of the procedure on this unique and key instrument for participative democracy in the european union. the european parliament has contributed a great deal to this text. two-thirds of the text comes from the parliament, showing once again its constant commitment to involving european citizens in the political debate and bringing the european union closer to them. i consider this document to be well-balanced and to contribute to our common goal, which is to give the citizens’ initiative an important role in the practice of european democracy and enhance the capacity of european citizens to make an impact on european policies. indeed, this instrument is designed to promote in-depth debate throughout civil society. as our group has emphasised from the beginning, this instrument is accessible and simply designed, as well as being clear and detailed in order to avoid creating frustration. i would like to thank you very much and to wish you success after this remarkable beginning.
madam president, first i want to congratulate zita gurmai and alain lamassoure for this report. i strongly welcome the citizens’ initiative mechanism. it is a very positive grassroots initiative. it will serve to greatly reduce the democratic deficit between the people and the european union institutions. notably, it gives citizens a platform to express and propose ideas for european legislation. the need for a minimum of one fourth of all member states to collect signatures for the initiative ensures that the initiative will represent the need for a legislative proposal by a cross-section of society. finally, i would like to stress that it is important to have full transparency regarding the founding of the initiative and sources of financial support for the organisers.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank the honourable members of this parliament for their great support for this regulation. i would also like to thank them for the very positive european energy radiating from this house during this debate. as we saw this morning, this year is rather challenging for europe, but i think this debate has shown that today is a very good day for european citizens and a very good day for europe. i would like to underline that the commission wants this important initiative to be a success and we will treat it in a very constructive spirit. in answer to some questions that have been raised by members, i would like to assure them that we are going to help the organisers. we are going to organise the contact points, and we are going to organise the helpdesk through which we will advise organisers about what is possible, what is not, what kinds of regulations are in the pipeline, what kinds of initiatives are being organised or what kinds of competing or opposite proposals we have received from other organising committees. we will try to be as user-friendly and as citizens’ initiative-friendly as possible. we take the concerns raised by ms corazza bildt and mr casini very seriously. therefore, during the whole process we will insist on the importance of preserving the institutional balance in this regulation and preserving the exclusive right of initiative for the commission, because the commission is responsible to all citizens – not only to the organisers of the initiative, but also to general european interests. this is what we have to follow up in this process as well. in reply to mr groote, i would like to assure him that once the european citizens’ initiative is successful we will follow the procedure established by the regulation. we will receive the organisers at appropriate level – commissioner or director-general level – then we will be present at the highest possible level at the hearings organised by the european parliament. within three months we will establish very precise reasons in the communication if we want to follow up with legislative proposals, if we need to study the issue further or, should the initiative be too controversial, if we will not proceed with subsequent proposals. i hope that this new instrument will help us to have a better european debate in europe and more european topics in national capitals. i hope that the eci will be a very successful project and that we will see this when we review it for the first time. thank you for your support. (applause)
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few words after commissioner šefčovič. the debate has shown us that this is an exciting subject. questions remain, and fears are not all over. it is a compromise. let's make the citizens' initiative a reality! let us evaluate the regulation in due course, which will of course enable us to change its mechanism. thank you again for your cooperation. good luck with the citizens' initiative!
in writing. i would like to congratulate the authors of the report on the result of the vote in the commission. the citizens' initiative has great symbolic value and is one of the most effective ways of strengthening democracy in the eu. the new instrument must be easy to use, accessible and credible to citizens. i would mention that during the negotiations in the council, romania sought to strike a balance between the accessibility of the initiative and the establishment of provisions to prevent its misuse. i believe that the latest changes include a faster 'admissibility' check of proposals, a lower threshold for the number of participating countries, and an easier process for signing the petition. i would like to stress the importance of regulating this instrument throughout europe. we need to find a solution that will stimulate public engagement. communication activities and information campaigns play an important role in this respect.
in writing. the establishment of the european citizens' initiative proves that bringing the european union closer to its citizens, which was one of the major objectives of the treaty revision process leading to the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, is not just an abstraction. the european citizens' initiative will make a significant contribution to the democratisation of the european political regime by directly connecting citizens of the member states to the european institutions. the parliament's text responds to the need to provide citizens with a simple and easily accessible tool, and the possibility of collecting signatures online shows the adaptation to the reality of today's societies. the initiative will provide european political parties with the opportunity to transform themselves from structures of association of national parties into organisations that mobilise the will of citizens in common projects. the impact of the european citizens' initiative needs to be measured, however, not only at european level but also at national level. indeed, the fact that from now on a minimum of 24 750 romanian citizens will be able to be associated for such an initiative with other citizens from at least one quarter of the member states cannot be separated from another fact, namely that according to the constitution of romania, a minimum of 100 000 romanian citizens are needed for a legislative initiative in a strictly national framework.
in writing. − the adoption of the eu budget for 2011 by parliament is a signal that when there is a dialogue between the commission and the legislator, things can work out in a win-win way. the commission understood that the european parliament now had a stronger say on the union's finances and chose, even if later, to respect this. in practice, the budget remains within the limits set by the council but, at the same time, includes some of the legislative priorities. we were in the strange position before the agreement was reached of having all sorts of strategies and programmes which were not in the budgetary projections for the next year. these strategies and programmes cannot remain on paper, for they would only show inconsistency and lack of confidence in the union's own acts. it is clear that you cannot develop programmes for youth, innovation and research, you cannot claim to be an active player in world foreign policy without funds to finance all these plans. parliament successfully argued to the council for systematic evaluations of the benefits of the new legislation and its financing. as representatives directly elected by the citizens of the union, it is important that taxpayers see that money is being spent well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for information and communication technology (ict) workers made redundant in the noord holland region, the netherlands. the european ict sector has been affected by both the global financial and economic crisis and the structural changes in the global ict market, in particular due to the shift of production to china and india, which is also reflected in the ict5 indicator. ict5 summarises the main research outputs related to the business cycle, expenditure and budgets allocated to the ict sector. this indicator for western europe decreased from a value of around 160 in august 2008 to a value of around 30 in april 2009. the netherlands prepared for the 613 workers made redundant from two enterprises belonging to the firm 'randstad' a coordinated package of personalised services such as: transition guidance, setting up mobility centres, placement of redundant staff, vocational training and employability research. the total budget required is eur 3 934 055; the netherlands submitted an application on 8 april 2010 for a financial contribution from the egf of eur 2 557 135.
in writing. − belgium, bulgaria, germany, greece (withdrew its application on 3 march 2010), spain, france, italy, latvia, luxembourg, hungary, malta, austria, portugal, romania and slovenia have addressed a request to the commission expressing their intention to establish enhanced cooperation between them in the field of the law applicable to matrimonial matters and have invited the commission to submit a proposal to the council to that effect. the increasing mobility of citizens requires greater flexibility on the one hand and a higher level of legal certainty on the other. in order to meet that objective, this regulation should strengthen the autonomy of the parties in matters of divorce and legal separation by giving the spouses the possibility to choose the law applicable to their divorce and legal separation. the regulation will apply only in the event of dissolution of marriage or cessation of marital obligations (separation of legal relations) and will not apply to matters relating to the legal capacity of natural persons, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, the annulment of a marriage, the names of the spouses, the property consequences of marriage, parental responsibility, maintenance obligations, trust deeds or succession, even if these only appear as a preliminary matter in the context of divorce or legal separation proceedings.
in writing. − the repeal of all 8 directives will most likely lead to increased administrative burden, as member states will be able to introduce national provisions for the implementation of the measurement tools provided for in the repealing directives. neither the repeal nor the remaining directives improve the common level of consumer protection. only changing them could ensure that. i believe that member states should have more time to examine whether repealing directives would create legal uncertainty, which would require harmonisation of european regulations, and i support the rapporteur's proposal that the process should be completed by 1 may 2014. i therefore voted for this report because it opts for a solution whereby the directives are repealed, but at the same time provides sufficient time to analyse the possible consequences in the context of the comprehensive review of the fundamental legislative act in this area, the measures directive (2004/22/ec).
in writing. −the citizens' initiative, which gives a million europeans the right to legislative initiative, brings the concept of participatory democracy, which is also enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, to the european union. it is an important new step the eu is taking and parliament will thus receive signals from the citizens it represents whether or not it is doing its job well. it is welcome that parliament has tried, as far as possible, to make the legislative initiative procedure as easy and user-friendly as possible for eu citizens to actually use it. we would not have needed a complicated procedure that would have only brought frustration to eu citizens. parliament's key demands were accepted, such as that of checking admissibility from the outset, instead of checking it after the first collection of 300 000 signatures. i consider it a victory for parliament and the eu citizens that the minimum number of member states from which signatures must be collected is one quarter of them, rather than one third as originally proposed. i hope that from 2012, when parliament's decision comes into force, there will be as many initiatives from eu citizens as possible.
in writing. − the citizens' initiative will create a direct link between citizens and institutions, filling the current gap and getting the eu institutions to tackle issues that are important to citizens. i would like to emphasize a few elements that should not be neglected: 1. a citizens' initiative will only be successful if the relevant regulation is understandable and easily applicable from the citizen's point of view, without creating excessive obligations for the organisers. 2.following negotiations with the commission and the council, we have a common understanding that supporters of a citizens' initiative must provide identification and that this can be verified by the member states. it is, however, essential to ensure that the process complies with eu data protection requirements. any organisation that has the opportunity to support citizens' initiatives must ensure full transparency of the support provided, so that signatories know who is behind an initiative they choose to support. 3.the information offices of the european parliament in the member states and the commission's information networks, such as europe direct and the citizens' guidance service, should be involved in providing the necessary information on the citizens' initiative.
in writing. − the citizens' initiative, introduced by the treaty of lisbon, is designed to give citizens the right to participate in the democratic life of the union. its objective is to give citizens a means of making their voices heard by giving them the opportunity to raise a range of issues of interest to the european institutions the difficulties they face in their daily lives and for which they feel they do not receive sufficient attention and support from trade unions, political institutions or other usual interlocutors of the institutions. the initiative will truly create a direct link between citizens and institutions, getting the eu institutions to tackle the concrete issues that matter to citizens. the citizens' initiative is subject to the need to meet certain administrative requirements, but also to respect the eu's fundamental values, among others, ensuring its reliability and efficiency, which are essential for success. the process must be compliant with eu data protection requirements and fully transparent. any organisation, association or even political party will be able to support the citizens' initiatives of their choice, provided that there is full transparency of the support provided, so that signatories know who is behind an initiative they choose to support or not.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the citizens' initiative. the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon enhance participatory democracy and are an important step towards developing civic spirit. european citizens have a 42% trust in the european institutions. one reason could be that few of the european initiatives and policies addressed to european citizens are known by them. this is why the citizens' initiative not only enables european citizens to participate directly in the decision-making process, but also empowers them to contribute to the european agenda. the citizens' initiative will thus bring the major concerns and demands of european citizens to the table of european legislation. the idea is not new. in 2007 we set out to collect 1 million signatures to ask the commission to propose a directive on the integration of people with disabilities into society. at that time, only about 700 000 signatures had been collected, but the legislative proposals were submitted to the european commission. therefore, in order to deliver on our commitment to european citizens, it will be essential to ensure that the demands made through the citizens' initiative are translated into legislation that improves the situation of european citizens.
in writing. − the commission's 2011 work programme does not sufficiently reflect the major events that have marked europe since 2008, nor the hopes and expectations of european citizens. it is unfortunate that this programme does not place more emphasis on the loss of seven million jobs caused by the financial crisis, with unemployment practically persisting for years to come. this is one of the key challenges for the eu in 2011, and so the commission will have to find out how its initiatives and proposals will create enough decent jobs for citizens. the commission should take into account the views of the social partners in the field of pensions and ensure that the future white paper reflects the expectations of the parties involved, including the strengthening of the first pillar, the public one. i welcome the reform of the eures information and advice portal on jobs for young workers to make them more accessible, but i regret that this proposal is postponed until 2012 and that today's young people need it now. the commission's programme makes no reference to gender issues, so a european directive addressing the 17.4% pay gap between women and men and a directive on the eradication of violence against women are needed.
in writing. − advertising involves unfair practices, invades public and private spaces and makes more target audiences vulnerable. internet advertising has expanded significantly in recent years, currently worth over eur 14 billion in the european market alone. it is important to strengthen european cooperation in combating unfair practices in internet advertising, given the success of the 'sweep' actions (systematic and simultaneous checks of websites by member states), which have so far been limited to three sectors (airline tickets, mobile phone ringers and electronic equipment). these checks should be much more frequent and extended in scope. self-regulation in national markets responds to rapid developments in the advertising sector by focusing on empowering actors and disseminating good practice. self-regulation needs to be encouraged at union level in order to establish a tradition of self-discipline and responsible communication. the european unfair commercial practices directive, which covers aspects of internet advertising in business-to-consumer relationships, has become insufficient, because the field of internet advertising is growing every day. social networks have reached a scale that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago.
in writing. − the report deals with unfair commercial practices in advertising as defined in the unfair commercial practices directive, focusing on issues related to the development of new practices and technologies in advertising, not addressing business-to-business relationships, which are particularly covered by directive 2006/114/ec. advertising is a tool that serves both the internal market, acting as a 'lubricant' of economic activity (stimulating competition, competitiveness, innovation and creativity) and consumers (diversity of choice, lower prices). this is an important economic sector, with internet advertising alone worth over eur 14 billion on the european market. given the lack of information on consumer rights in advertising, there is a need to facilitate access to information and improve transparency. due to the fact that the general public is neither aware of the problems related to the use of personal data nor of the tools available to them to combat them, it is often necessary to launch awareness-raising campaigns on consumer rights in the field of advertising, in particular with regard to the use of personal data, whether voluntarily provided or automatically collected, and to develop educational tools for internet users (e.g. trace management technologies and privacy tools).
in writing. − i would like to welcome this report on energy efficiency as it will increase energy security and it will serve to create social and economic advantages for the eu’s economy. the s&d group have pointed out that energy resources are not evenly distributed among member states. we must always consider european solidarity when legislating for energy efficiency. it has been said that economising on energy is one of the quickest routes to energy efficiency. promoting energy efficiency will create employment and it will save member state governments billions in heating costs on an annual basis. i strongly welcome the creation of a lower carbon intensive society but we must be careful to strike the correct balance between member states based on their capabilities and resources. i am concerned that member states such as romania will be expected to perform on a level playing field with other member states such as sweden, who have a proven track record in the area of energy efficiency. financial perspective 8 will be a critical financing tool to encourage and promote energy efficiency from 2014 to 2020.
in writing. − the energy efficiency report is very important for the adoption of the eu action plan in this area for the next few years and will have a huge impact on ways to reduce co2 emissions, economic growth, job creation in it, construction and services. i voted for more effective protection of vulnerable consumers. these consumers should benefit the most from energy efficiency improvements, but more financial resources are needed to make the necessary investments. we also voted to establish energy efficiency funds at national, regional or local level. these funds could play a fundamental role in the development of smes and companies providing energy efficiency services. i voted against the legally binding target of at least 20% energy savings by 2020 because this eu-wide binding could have negative effects on the single market. i believe that the transition to a sustainable and green economy will proceed without excessive legislation.
in writing. − energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce co2 and other emissions. the benefits are enormous, both in terms of economic growth and in terms of job creation (in it, construction and services) in both rural and urban environments, often within smes, as these are local jobs that cannot be outsourced. the commission will present a new revised plan at the beginning of 2011, which should contain the following elements: - a binding community target of at least 20% energy efficiency by 2020; - measures to combat energy poverty introduced in all energy policies; - the revision of the energy services directive in 2011; - encouraging investment in smart grids and the member states' compliance with the requirement of the third internal market legislative package to install smart devices in 80% of households by 2020; - member states to set annual targets for the renovation of buildings; - the commission to propose policies to achieve near-zero energy losses in buildings by 2050; - the commission to analyse innovative financing models, such as the development of sectoral funds to achieve energy efficiency targets.
madam president! madam high representative! i would like to emphasise that, although the european union has achieved unprecedented integration of its member states in many areas, it is significantly behind other international organisations in the codification of human rights. i fully support the statement calling on member states to sign and ratify all the un and council of europe conventions on fundamental human rights and the optional protocols attached to them. among these, i would like to highlight the council of europe's framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages, for which the eu's future accession to the convention on human rights could serve as a model. i also consider it important to improve the coordination of the work of international bodies with jurisdiction in the field of human rights, which can be the only guarantee for the enforcement of the rights and obligations set out.
in writing. – mrs andrikienė’s report is a step in the right direction. the eu-russia relationship is indeed special and should stay special, but not unusually special. russia is bound by its own commitments to protect human rights and to defend its citizens against state abuse. the magnitsky case, referred to in the report, follows the murders of politkovsaya, estemirova and barburova. this is a pattern, not a succession of tragic accidents beyond the abilities of russia’s judiciary. and yet, murder after murder, the russian authorities tell the outside world that this time the guilty will definitely be found and punished. what is the result? zero, nil, nothing! the russian state duma even accused the european parliament of interference in russia’s internal affairs and used a bunch of lies to smear the andrikienė report. if europe is to maintain its credibility as a defender of democracy and human rights, the andrikienė report should be adopted as it is, with no special provisions for russia’s constant abuses. a resolution in the canadian parliament already backed a travelling ban and the freezing of the accounts of those linked to the magnitsky case. we should follow suit and send russia a clear and resolute message. enough is enough!
i am very pleased that the political groups in the afet committee have reached a consensus on this report. the resulting text is much more convincing than the original proposal. the situation in afghanistan still needs significant improvement after nine years of international intervention. socio-economic and security indicators have not improved markedly and decisions have often been taken without sufficient involvement of the afghan side. that is why i believe that what is missing is neither the framework nor the instruments. in fact, we need a strategic projection in line with our commitments to afghanistan. the eu must take the lead, together with nato, in an international effort to treat afghanistan as a sovereign state. i stress that the only political and diplomatic solution is the increased involvement of the afghan government. in this regard, i believe that one of the key elements of the report is the support for the new strategy against the insurgents. the lisbon summit set the stage for the transition, which is the gradual handover of security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014. as it has committed to since the beginning of the mission, my country will not withdraw its troops until the afghan territory is completely secure. i also mention here the important contribution of russia, accepting the transit of our troops and materials through its territory. in conclusion, i would stress the need for, as the transition process progresses, the isaf troops that will end their activities to be relocated to areas where the security situation will continue to be precarious. this is very important for the romanian troops in southern afghanistan. the region will remain unstable, despite the successes of isaf operations.
i would like to begin by saying that i support the view put forward earlier by my colleague, mr juvin, and i would like to begin by saying that i regret that the title of the report does not contain the name of the european union. we do not think we should speak for the global community, but for the union. i have tried to emphasize this in my amendments. that does not mean, of course, that we should ignore cooperation with our allies and especially, as my colleague juvin said, with the united states. i think at this point, we don't need to focus so much on a whole new strategy. i think it is better to put into practice the strategic vision defined at the nato summit in bucharest two years ago. i do not think that this is a new strategy, but rather a coherence with this strategic vision. on the other hand, of course, we must acknowledge and learn from the mistakes that the military coalition in afghanistan has made. but we must not fall into the trap of idealizing the situation before the intervention. it is important, as has been pointed out, to highlight the fact that the disappearance of taliban groups from this country is one of the major objectives of our strategy in afghanistan. on the other hand, we must emphasize the positive aspects of the intervention and especially of the petraeus plan. afghanistan today is a country where more women have more rights, where more children go to school, more factories are opened, more roads are built. and that's because of the way we've been behaving in this country. integrating civilian resources like education, poverty eradication, reconstruction and development programs, that integration is essential to ensuring peace in afghanistan. finally, i would like to stress the need for a pragmatic approach, such as that of my group. let us not forget that the arlacchi report has had over four hundred amendments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because, beyond sentimentalism, an intervention lasting ten years can cast an absolutely unfavourable shadow on the effectiveness of the political decision on this question, and i think that each of us has a responsibility to those who elected us with an answer to this question. i welcome the lucidity of this report and the fact that it talks about things that we generally avoid, for various reasons, talking about and i think it is a report that is just a beginning. we must have the courage to periodically analyze, evaluate our actions, admit where we have gone wrong, and when we have, find other solutions. it's so responsible, it's so democratic.
madam president, our commitment to a stable self-governing afghanistan, capable of preventing the re-establishment of a terrorist sanctuary there, is strong and long-term, having been reasserted by both the eu and nato. however, precisely because our commitment is a long-term one, i would foresee at least three major challenges. the first is that the kind of state model we provide for afghanistan does not fit the afghan tradition. as the afghans have to adjust, so too do we, helping them to get an achievable state model combining modernity with the afghan tradition. the second challenge is that the security situation might well continue to require our international military involvement beyond 2014, when the afghans will take over. we should be ready seriously to contemplate either extending the deadline or facing the consequences. finally, the third challenge will be provided by the running-out of our public’s patience, which might force us to speed up our present timetable to avoid the alternative of simply declaring victory and going home. that would ruin our credibility.
in writing. the strategy presented and endorsed in lisbon means the gradual transfer, region by region, of control of the area from isaf responsibility to the afghan armed forces. its success depends on how pakistan acts, which is part of the problem and will inevitably be part of the solution. i also don't think we can ignore iran's increasingly obvious involvement in afghanistan. recent events regarding this involvement are disturbing. i believe that this strategy must be accompanied by more important and visible civilian projects that help the development of these regions, where poverty is pervasive and where the presence of isaf and us forces has not produced fundamental changes. we cannot leave behind, after the withdrawal, the same problems that led to the taliban's rise to power in the last decade. i hope this new strategy will work and allow afghanistan to find its peace and balance.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the nato summit in lisbon has acknowledged the new realities, challenges and non-conventional threats of the post-cold war world. on that basis it has tried to establish a new balance between the alliance’s regional and global involvement. a global nato, or a nato with a global role, is a must. certain consequences are implied. firstly, the european union must prepare itself to assume more responsilities as far as european security and defence are concerned. this means not only developing and updating our european security and defence concept but also developing our military capabilities. secondly, the european union has a duty to prepare itself to face global challenges and to behave like a truly global player. this means that we have to redefine our global interest and targets, and increase our military capacities to an extent which will allow us properly to share the burdens of global defence with our american allies. thirdly, we have a duty to include in our strategies concerning relations with other global players ideas which will lead towards a system of partnership for defence, with capacity for aggregation within a global defensive pact. in coping with all these duties, the european union should not only preserve its strategic connection with nato but should also be able to make its intellectual and political contribution with regard to maintaining nato’s ability to deter, and its ability to defend member states against any aggression, in a context different from the one which determined the birth of the alliance.
on behalf of the alde group. i believe that the lisbon summit is the first summit since 1999 to add to the common good in terms of the alliance's strategic vision. i think what's more important is that in this century, the existing threats, the security interests, but especially the ability of defense budgets to provide effective military solutions are challenging the question of the bipolarity of the world. it was time to make a broad analysis of the direction in which the alliance is heading, and certainly if compatibility with russia is an issue, i would stress that for nato, in my view, compatibility with the european security project is also essential. it seems that the afghan issue has motivated the alliance enough and i'm glad to see that russia has agreed to join nato's efforts in afghanistan. i hope that this complex issue of afghanistan is not one of the reasons for concern for the effective future of this alliance. i also welcome the fact that the european union has raised the question of missile defence technology. i think at the union level we'll have to have a discussion about the effectiveness of this missile shield.
madam president, indeed both the new strategy concept and the summit declaration recognise loudly and clearly that the eu is a major, and therefore indispensible, partner of the alliance. the current international challenges confronting nato and the eu, their simultaneous presence in a number of theatres of action and, moreover, the increasing complementarity between their respective roles require that the relations between the two organisations be strengthened. in that regard, and taking into account the necessary collaboration in theatres of action and – inevitably – the revision of the berlin plus agreements, both organisations expect more concrete results from the discussions between the vice-president of the commission/high representative and the secretary-general, in accordance with their respective mandates and, in that respect, the time has come to be imaginative in finding the right political compromise to allow for an unblocking of the current mechanical deadlock and permit both organisations to achieve their truly collaborative potential.
the lisbon summit has brought a new perspective to the alliance's security strategy. in practice, the three major objectives have been achieved: adoption of the new strategic concept, formulation of a new approach to afghanistan, and relaunching relations with the russian federation. i think the most important result was the integration of the missile shield into the new strategic concept. romania has promoted the placement of the shield since the 2008 bucharest summit. this shows that my country has had the right vision and will contribute significantly to the implementation of the defense system. at the same time, romania supported the open door policy, aimed in particular at strengthening nato relations with georgia and ukraine. i also welcome the fact that nato has reaffirmed the strategic importance of the black sea region, given the security risks that dominate this area. they consist mainly of the existence of frozen conflicts in transnistria and georgia. in this regard, i consider it necessary to maintain the unity of the alliance in our messages to russia. the russian federation must prove its good intentions by taking a substantial responsibility for romania's eastern border and nato. i would like to stress that, through the adopted political declaration, nato has committed itself to the territorial integrity of the republic of moldova and georgia.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, the situation in côte d’ivoire is very precarious, as lives are at risk – the lives of ivorian citizens but also of many europeans who are living and working in the country. i believe important issues are at stake, not only the role which côte d’ivoire plays in africa, but also the vast work done by the international community over the past 10 years to support crisis resolution and enhance stability. presidential elections have been due for several years. in the end, it is a credit to the ivorian people, to the work of the united nations with the support of the international community and, in particular i must say, to the european union and the facilitator, president blaise compaore of burkina faso, that these elections could finally take place. all candidates had agreed beforehand the ground rules of the election. these included a special role for the un secretary-general’s special representative, mr choi, in certifying the election results. a european electoral observation mission was sent to the country headed by mr cristian preda, mep. i thank him for his work and i believe he will be speaking shortly. it concluded that the elections were held in democratic conditions. i do thank and congratulate mr preda and his team for their courage as well as their excellent work, carried out in difficult circumstances. the results were proclaimed by the independent electoral commission and certified by the special representative of the un secretary-general. president barroso and i were among the first to congratulate president ouattara on his victory. the international community has been unanimous in recognising him. ecowas and the african union have been crystal clear in their message. mr ouattara is the legitimate president of côte d’ivoire. on 3 december the acp-eu parliamentary assembly was equally unambiguous in its declaration. we are calling on all political forces in côte d’ivoire to respect the electoral outcome, to show responsibility and to refrain from any act of violence. all efforts should now be focused on the achievement of a peaceful transfer of power. un resolutions provide for targeted measures against those who obstruct the peaceful transition and the elections. african bodies have already resorted to sanctions on côte d’ivoire. the eu is ready to assume its responsibilities regarding targeted measures, and we have clearly said so this week in the council with the eu foreign ministers, but we are also prepared to take measures to support the legally elected authorities. the developments in côte d’ivoire are being followed closely by many actors and by public opinion, particularly in africa and especially in neighbouring countries, many of which are also in a post-conflict situation and undergoing difficult democratic transition. the outcome of the present constitutional crisis in côte d’ivoire will send a strong signal to all forces on the african continent, both those in favour of democracy and those who are against. the response of the european union to this crisis is vital. as a major player in the international community, our role will be enhanced, and our credibility as a global champion of democracy improved, if our action can contribute to a peaceful handover of power in accordance with the will of the people of côte d’ivoire, clearly expressed in free and fair elections.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, i was in côte d'ivoire to lead this eu election observation mission. i would like to start by talking about the courage and commitment of the observers from 26 countries, over 100 people, 120 observers, who were on the ground and did an admirable job. they found, first of all, that ivorian citizens were saying, from all sides: "we are tired". that was the key word, the refrain to say, in fact, that the elections were seen as the end of a political crisis. everyone wanted it to end with this election. there is one exception, the incumbent president, mr gbagbo, who refused to relinquish power and who took the means to prevent the end of this crisis by setting up a partisan constitutional council which simply annulled the results favourable to his opponent. the situation is now that instead of calm, instead of an exit from the crisis, we have an even more complicated crisis, with an equilibrium that was already very fragile and which now leads to the beginning of a confrontation. i would say that it is very, very difficult to avoid confrontation now. we have to look at what happened in the voting in the barracks, in the first round and in the second round. unfortunately, we are faced with a very delicate situation. i would not like to end without expressing my appreciation for the determination of the high representative, for her commitment to the settlement of this matter. i would like to ask him a question - as i have seen that the council has announced that restrictive measures will be adopted shortly - can he say when these restrictive measures will be adopted?
the elections in ivory coast have created an unprecedented situation, with both presidential candidates claiming victory and each appointing a prime minister. there is only one legitimate president, ouattarra. i believe that all political forces must respect the will of the people, as reflected in the election results of november 28. especially since the un, the electoral commission and many european states have recognized the opposition leader as the legitimate winner. it is also regrettable that acts of intimidation were committed against eu observers, which led to the termination of the mission. political instability is already having significant consequences. the african union recently decided to suspend the country from all activities of the organization. in addition, there is a risk of a repeat of the 2002 civil war. the ivory coast can therefore choose between two paths: one of preserving democracy and continuing progress, and the other of isolation from the african community.
today, 16 december, we are celebrating the 240th anniversary of the birth of ludwig van beethoven, the composer of the anthem of a united europe. in virtue of this excellent report of the commission for culture and education, as a romanian historian and writer, i propose as a mark of european heritage an exceptional place, unique in the world st. andrew's cave, located near the danube's outflow into the black sea. as one of the fathers of the christian church, origen, who learned from his father, who in turn learned from the disciples of andrew, says, there, in that little cave in the province of scythia minor, came and spread the light of the gospel the one who had been first called by jesus christ. without a doubt, that is the first christian church in europe. in the first months of 2011 i will take the necessary steps to find community support for a grandiose project. i intend to erect an imposing statue of the savior jesus christ in transylvania, romania, specifically in the brasov area. it will be taller than similar ones in brazil, portugal, and poland, at 130 feet [40 m], and at its base will be a church for weddings, baptisms, and religious services for christendom's great festivals. in the darkness of the future, we will fight and win only under the bright sign of the christian cross.
first of all, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the very good report she has managed to produce, for the negotiations she has had with the commission and the council. even if it has not succeeded in getting the european union cultural heritage label, the european heritage label is still very good, and the project itself is very good. i am convinced that if it follows the path of the european capital of culture project, it will be a very successful one. it is a very good initiative, especially since it brings together transnational projects. several states are working together to share the same values and the same traditions that they've had for hundreds of years together. i come from a city on the eastern border of the european union, perhaps the largest cultural city on the eastern border, just 10 km from the border, but i've also been to santiago de compostela, practically on the western border of the european union two cultural centers that have a lot in common but also a lot of things that differentiate them. one is an orthodox pilgrimage center, the other a catholic pilgrimage center. we see the values we share best when we go beyond the borders of the european union, when we go to other continents. then we have a very clear picture of the values that we have shared for hundreds of years, that we have a common culture, that we have certain features that differentiate us from other peoples, and the european union cultural heritage label, the european union cultural heritage label, makes sense when we go outside the borders of the european union. i congratulate you once again on this report and i am confident that it will be a successful project.
i welcome the fact that we are voting on the second proposal during this part-session, which aims to bridge the gap between the european union and its citizens. the introduction of the european heritage title, by turning it from an intergovernmental programme in several european countries into an official eu action, strengthens the sense of belonging to the eu, consolidates the recognition of differences and the dialogue between cultures. it raises awareness among citizens, especially young people, of the importance of the role played by the union in european history and in the european symbol system. it can bring our common cultural heritage to the fore. the award will make it easier for young people in particular to visit sites and to make better use of objects that represent our common history. personally, i am particularly pleased with the organisational aspects of the measure. the selection and supervision procedures will be based on common, clear and transparent criteria and the exchange of professional experience will be increased. as an elected representative of a national minority community, i am pleased to note that, for example, in the case of romania, it will be possible to list, on the basis of objective international experts, sites next to the four objects already holding the title, both the teleki tek library in marosvásárhely, which is considered one of the strongholds of hungarian culture, and the black church in brasov, which is considered a reference for the excellence of saxon gothic architecture.
i welcome the transformation of the intergovernmental project on the european heritage label into a formal european union initiative, as the original project did not enjoy the visibility and prestige it deserved. through this project, we also open a door to countries that enrich the culture of our continent without being part of the union. a key point is the revalidation of sites already designated under the intergovernmental agreement, as well as ensuring fairness with regard to states with a different number of sites registered initially. also, where sites are not directly revalidated, it is important that they have the possibility to reapply to give them a better chance. the granting of the heritage label on an indefinite basis, without a periodic reassessment, would help to make more effective use of the reduced budget allocated to the project. the european heritage label will raise public awareness of the diversity of our common cultural heritage and cultural tourism.
creating a european identity and increasing interest in the eu are major challenges. they have the capacity to generate a broad cohesion and solidarity. the european heritage label could fulfil its objectives more effectively if it were managed as a european initiative. it must be based on the same criteria and accompanied by a very well defined monitoring system. this will, among other things, stimulate cultural tourism. as with the unesco world heritage sites, the marche will increase tourist numbers and provide a new impetus to local economies. i welcome the commission's intention to use the european heritage label alongside other instruments designed to create a stronger link between the eu and european citizens. finally, i would like to stress the importance of encouraging intercultural dialogue.
in writing. turning the european heritage label into an official eu action will bring great added value to all actions undertaken by member states and will also make an important contribution to the creation of a common european identity. i welcome this initiative and the report presented and note that the european heritage label could be extended with great success and beneficial effects to activities related to traditional rural tourism, a fast-developing sector in european countries. it is also one of the proposals i will be putting to the committee on agriculture and rural development when i present my opinion on the role of rural and agro-tourism in achieving the eu's objective of making europe the world's number one tourist destination.
in writing. switzerland's desire to participate in the european union's education and youth programmes is welcome, especially as the country is not yet part of the eu or the european economic area. the association with european programmes is also important because we have not had a direct agreement in the field of culture and education. switzerland's participation in the bologna process and the creation of the european higher education area provides, however, a guarantee that together we can create the conditions for achieving the objectives of strategy 2020, while at the same time achieving a strong link between member states and third countries. through meetings between young people, through exchanges of experience between teachers and researchers, through increased opportunities for lifelong learning, we will contribute to the creation of a common european identity. but i stress that we must also take into account the inclusion of other countries on the eu's borders in our programmes, because education and culture must not stop at borders. in this way, we will ensure the re-integration of the european continent and encourage young people to be actively involved in shaping our common future.
i do not think it is fair to speak in general terms of a ten-year period that the member states would have had at their disposal. romania and bulgaria, for example, joined the european union only three years ago, but rules are rules and must be followed by everyone. i would, however, urge my colleagues to vote in favour of amendment no 2, tabled by the group of the european people's party. there are a large number of producers who have already started investing in the modernisation of their growing systems or are about to start such investments, but these investments cannot be made overnight, and it would be unfair to penalize the producers concerned. i would stress once again that this concerns only those producers who have begun to change their growing systems, and the amendment refers to compliance with clearly defined conditions.
i would like to begin by congratulating mrs andrikienė on the effort she has put into the report and i would also like to say that i voted in full in favour of amendment no 25, because i consider the climate of impunity in russia to be extremely dangerous. the european union aims to defend on the international stage the same principles that guide it internally, namely democracy, the rule of law and human rights. or, it is as clear as can be that in recent years many human rights defenders have been killed and this calls into question the development of a genuine democracy in russia. what we wanted to convey to the russian authorities through the 25th amendment is the urgent need for an investigation into the death of sergei magnitsky. the reaction of the moscow authorities to this initiative shows that the russians are listening to the messages sent from the european parliament, which is another reason to condemn in a clear and strong voice the lack of investigation in this case and to ask the council to follow the matter closely and, in the absence of any developments, to take the necessary measures.
in writing. − the focus on education and training, research and, in particular, the resource that youth represents for the european union is constantly growing. by providing them with new learning opportunities, we want to give more opportunities to our citizens. education, training, culture, research and youth programmes are an important component of this strategy. the 'youth in action' programme aims to inspire a sense of active european citizenship, solidarity and tolerance among europeans from adolescence to adulthood. the programme promotes mobility between and across eu borders and encourages the inclusion of all young people, regardless of their educational, social and cultural background. as a member of the delegation for relations with switzerland and norway, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the agreement reached between the commission and the swiss authorities is fully appropriate and in the interest of both parties. in this way, we will help as many young people as possible to acquire new skills and provide them with learning opportunities with a european dimension.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the creation of a permanent crisis mechanism to guarantee the financial stability of the euro area, considering that this type of mechanism has become a necessity in the context of the current economic and financial crisis. i also support this resolution because it calls for the mechanism to be governed by the community method, which implies a decision at the common european level. a permanent crisis mechanism is in the interest of all member states, including those that have not yet adopted the euro, given the interdependence of european economies.
in writing. − the way in which the second round of the presidential elections in côte d'ivoire has unfolded is regrettable. the violence, which left many dead and wounded, eventually led to the evacuation of international observers, raising serious questions about the fairness of the vote and about post-election developments in the country. i hope that this country, which will one day be a model of democracy for the african continent, will be able to overcome the impasse of the electoral confrontation. the massive turnout in the elections, despite the tensions, expresses the major concern of the ivorian people for the future of their country. that is why i believe it is essential to respect the will of the citizens, expressed through voting, in an election that has been postponed six times so far. the ivory coast has a chance to end a decade of political-military crises and temporary tensions that have divided the country between the loyalist south and the rebel north. the only viable solution is to respect the will of the voters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 2 initiated by the ppe group because there are a large number of producers who have already started investments to modernise their growing systems or are about to start such investments. these investments cannot be made overnight and it would be unfair to penalize the producers concerned. this amendment will allow a significant number of romanian producers - and not only romanian ones - to start modernisation works in the following period, so as not to be forced to cease their activity.
on behalf of the epp group. i'd like to start by quoting some data from an amnesty international study this month, from december 2010. at least 10 000 prisoners and at least 6 000 refugees are flogged every year in malaysia; there is widespread flogging in prisons and mr tannock said that unfortunately malaysia is not the only country where such an anachronistic punishment is applied; indeed singapore is. what is problematic about malaysia, however, is that there is a much higher number of crimes and offenses that are punishable by flogging, to be precise, 66 in malaysia, compared to 30 in singapore. this is not just about violent or sexual crimes but also about drug abuse and, above all, immigration violations. i was concerned, on the other hand, with the perspective that my colleague posselt has embraced, saying that this is torture and that in international law there is this absolute prohibition of torture.
mr president, inflicting physical pain is against human dignity. caning is a gross violation of human rights. it is against the right not to be tortured, but also against the right not to be subject to inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. in malaysia, over 10 000 people suffer from this form of corporal punishment every year. accounts show that the pain is so great that victims often lose consciousness. reports show that a number of officers carrying out the punishment are eager to accept bribes to spare the victims. therefore, in addition to gross human rights violations, we have government officials committing a crime by taking advantage of people’s suffering. i call upon the commission and the council, as well as on the malay government, to urgently work for an immediate moratorium on the practice of caning, followed by its elimination from the law. beating up people and whipping people on behalf of the government must stop.
i find it regrettable that the practice of flogging has reached such high proportions in malaysia and is on the rise. instead of restricting the practice, the malaysian government encourages it. the authorities make an unfounded argument that flogging is legal and has a considerable effect in curbing criminal activity. furthermore, prison officers receive financial rewards for flogging inmates. estimates confirm a worrying situation: over 6 000 refugees and 10 000 prisoners are victims of this practice every year. i think it's very important that victims who come from outside malaysia have the right to a fair trial. they are currently denied basic services such as interpretation or counselling.
over 10,000 citizens are flogged or whipped annually in malaysia, where the law officially provides for this punishment for 66 offences, the list of which has been expanded in recent years, indicating a worrying trend. in addition to the local victims, foreigners are subjected to numerous and serious abuses, ranging from lack of information and an interpreter to medical ethics violations and the lack of legal assistance. i also call on the european institutions to step up their efforts to abolish this punishment, which is equivalent to torture under international law, and to exert pressure to ensure that the right to an objective and impartial trial is respected in malaysia and that the ill-treatment of migrants and asylum seekers is brought to an end.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am alarmed by the use of criminal law against consenting same-sex relations taking place in private. this is already part of ugandan law and the punishment can be life imprisonment. however, the bahati bill would make things even worse. the death penalty could be used, while association and expression of lgbt issues would be effectively banned. the new bill will increase the climate of fear and hostility in a country where persecution of lgbt people is already under way. people would be required to report on each other on privacy matters. the lives of these people will be endangered. human dignity will have no meaning in uganda if such a law is adopted. we must not let this happen.
our resolution addresses extremely serious cases of human rights violations and, unfortunately, in africa, the criminalization of homosexuality is the norm, as shown by the laws of 38 states, with only 13 african countries considering it legal. in this context, the bill seeking to introduce penalties ranging from imprisonment to the death penalty in uganda constitutes a serious attack on human rights, including privacy. publishing a blacklist of 100 gays in a local newspaper and urging readers to hang them is a concrete example of a threat to a community blamed for its sexual orientation. as the resolution shows, our approach is not, as we are often accused of, to impose specific european values, but to defend human rights, one of the major objectives of the european union. i believe that the foreign office and the other european institutions must be more firm in their sanctions to ensure that the international agreements to which uganda is a party are respected.
we discussed uganda and homosexuality in this compound several months ago. nothing of any significance has happened since then. of course, sometimes it's said "no news, good news". but in this case it is not, because if david bahati's bill was not voted on, it was not withdrawn. it is still stuck in the committee on legal affairs and parliamentary affairs and all the international pressure that has been put on it has not finally led to this effect, namely the withdrawal of the project. what is really serious and some of my colleagues have already pointed out, is the anti-gay campaign that is going on in this country. of course, we continue to rely on the rationality of the authorities and on the eventual victory of such a principle, which means "no discrimination".
the author. - every year there are thousands of people who, driven by the difficult situation in the horn of africa, try to cross the border between egypt and israel. many of these people, unfortunately, end up in the hands of bedouin traffickers. these are criminal networks that have no regard for human dignity, since the lives of these people become a bargaining chip. according to information provided by ngos working for the protection of these migrants, incredible sums were demanded, up to $8,000 for the release of each person. we cannot, of course, remain indifferent to the suffering of these people who are subjected to exceptionally cruel treatment. i would also like to draw attention to the vulnerable situation of women who are repeatedly subjected to rape. at the same time, i think we need to have a constructive attitude in this case. this means acknowledging the efforts made by the egyptian authorities to free them, but above all, supporting this country in its fight against human trafficking. so what we need is not just tough talk, but cooperation, concrete action on a very complex issue that no single state can tackle.
mr president, on 7 december the unhcr expressed concern that some 250 eritrean refugees are being held in sinai by bedouin smugglers. we are aware that these refugees were compelled to pay a specific amount of money for their wish to live in better conditions. reportedly, the refugees are kept in containers in the desert and are often beaten. the attitude of the eritrean government itself is alarming: instead of protecting its citizens, it considers them unwanted dissidents. we call for rapid and joint action, primarily by egypt and israel, to stop the traffickers, to dismantle this organised crime network and, certainly, to strengthen efforts to protect current and future refugees by implementing unhcr provisions and standards.
i should like to stress at the outset that i support the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe without reservation. despite the clarity of the text, no agreement was reached with the other groups on a joint resolution, and this is regrettable. the situation in the horn of africa is a worrying one. this region has become one of the major centers of organized crime, with an increasing number of african migrants passing through. the 250 hostages have suffered inhuman and degrading treatment, and their situation continues to deteriorate. moreover, there is no prospect of an imminent release, as the families of the hostages cannot pay the ransom demanded. therefore, the european parliament must send a clear message for their release. urgent action is needed against criminal organizations, bringing them to justice and permanently closing the torture camps.
the vast majority of eritrean citizens now in the sinai desert fled an oppressive regime, and should therefore be considered refugees by un standards. that is why i think we must insist that egypt abide by its international obligations to provide assistance. but what i think is most worrying is the inhumane treatment that these migrants are subjected to, held hostage in the desert waiting for ransom. in particular, the rapes claimed by dozens of women are outrageous and should mobilize the international community. also, the trafficking of people from africa is growing alarmingly. dozens of migrants have been killed by egyptian security forces in recent years while trying to cross illegally into israel. i believe that the trafficking of animals in the area must be fought with other methods and i consider it necessary to have access to the united nations high commissioner for refugees in order to provide life-saving assistance to these people.
before we go to the vote, i would like to ask on behalf of my group that, in the vote on the refugees from eritrea, we abandon the roll call vote on the joint motion for a resolution and call for a roll call vote on the resolution tabled by the ppe.
