mr president, at the end of last year, the slovak republic was unjustifiably, shamelessly and repeatedly accused by the deputies of the republic of hungary of having adopted a law that allegedly affected the rights of hungarians living in slovakia. while hungary is spreading rumors about some kind of invented law from slovakia, the slovak republic has turned to the high commissioner for national minorities, knut vollebæk, to assess the legal norm that was actually adopted in slovakia. now at the beginning of the year, on 4 january 2010, the osce high commissioner for national minorities, knut vollebæk, issued a major statement on the law on the state language. its main statement confirmed that the law on the state language is in line with the international obligations of the slovak republic. it found that the law also complied with international standards and pursued a legitimate objective. it also explicitly stated that measures to promote the state language do not reduce the linguistic rights of persons belonging to national minorities. the osce high commissioner for national minorities, knut vollebæk, awarded the slovak republic with a medal.
the issue of fundamental procedural rights in criminal proceedings is one of the important issues that should resonate in the field of justice and home affairs. in principle, the draft legal framework set out a set of fundamental procedural rights in criminal proceedings, namely the right to legal aid, the right to interpretation, the right to special attention in sensitive areas, and the right to communication and consular cooperation. this calculation of fundamental rights should be considered strictly demonstrative, since the role of the european union is to ensure that the widest possible range of fundamental rights is respected within the member states, also taking into account and with reference to the member states' membership of the council of europe and its convention. our aim should be to promote such means of regulating procedural relations in criminal matters as would ensure these rights to all subjects of criminal proceedings, whether victims and injured parties or perpetrators, with a view to achieving a fair and democratic judicial decision that fully fulfils the purpose, or punishment, of the sentence imposed, which is not only repression but also re-socialization and education.
author. − the scale of trafficking in human beings is best illustrated by the fact that hundreds of thousands of victims are trafficked in europe each year. this is probably so incredible that the interpreters themselves have translated hundreds instead of hundreds of thousands. public opinion is more or less in agreement. he feels that this is a marginal issue, and that underestimates both the consequences and the gravity of the phenomenon itself. i believe that europe owes it to itself to step up its fight against trafficking in human beings. i want to make two points. one is to protect the victims, the other is to break demand. there is, however, european community legislation on the protection of victims, which the commission has promised to review by 2009. unfortunately, despite the fact that this law, 2004/81, actually needs to be modernized, we still find that its assessment has not seen the light of day, while most of the victims are declared accomplices and continue to be victimized. we all know that without the help of the victims, the gangs cannot be tackled, as the europol leadership has confirmed. i would also like to draw the attention of the legislative process to one point, namely the breakdown of demand. there's a market for human trafficking. it is subject to the same rules of supply and demand as other markets. we tend to deal with the supply side and more or less forget or don't want to deal with the demand side, and until we can break the demand side, we probably won't be able to effectively fight human trafficking. i would also like to stress the need for policy coordination. within the commission, we have seen that the different dgs, the different directorates-general, do not really coordinate their policies and that the flow of information is poor between them. i think we have something to do in this area.
first of all, let me thank mrs hedh and mrs bauer for having dealt with this subject in a very comprehensive way within the limited space available to them. i support the wording of the question and allow me to add a few observations and comments. the average person has no idea of the scale of human trafficking. but it is the third most lucrative illegal trade in the world. this vast business is all the more inhumane because it is overwhelmingly about women and children. the response to it must be massive and concentrated. the fight must be equally effective at all points of the trading triangle, it must strike the supply side, the demand side and the traders themselves. the offer is made in a world where there are inhumane conditions, poverty and its feminization, unemployment, violence against women, or the overall oppression and instability that desperate human beings breed. we should therefore do everything in our power to contribute to a more dignified life for people who fall victim to criminal trafficking both within and outside the union. on the demand side, it would be appropriate to impose tough sanctions. those who profit from exploiting desperate or manipulated people in the shadow economy must not do so with impunity. providers and knowing users of such services should face sanctions. however, while the operators of the trade themselves deserve exemplary punishment, organised crime in this area must be a priority target for organisations such as eurojust, europol and frontex.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of this question, mrs hedh and mrs bauer. and i want to say that human trafficking is one of the most lucrative forms of international organized crime, with a global scale estimated by various sources and sources to be between 700,000 and 2 million, some say more, with between 300,000 and 500,000 victims in the european union alone. the current legal framework appears to be inadequate, and i therefore fully support the adoption in the near future of effective measures to strengthen both the prevention and the repression of trafficking in human beings. stricter sanctions should not only affect the direct perpetrators, including legal persons, but also the users of services provided by victims. on the other hand, i believe that victims must be afforded a high degree of protection, irrespective of the member state in which they are located or in which the offence was committed, and that they must be given fair and adequate compensation. the protection, support and assistance provided must not lead to secondary victimisation and i would say that the provision concerning minors, who are easily victimized because of their vulnerability and trustworthiness, deserves special treatment. in conclusion, human trafficking is often carried out for the purpose of organ harvesting.
i congratulate the authors on the question they have put and you, commissioner, on your answer. i want to highlight one of the many problems that touch on this topic. the draft resolution notes that children are particularly vulnerable and therefore at greater risk of becoming victims of trafficking. it also states that 79% of the identified victims are women and girls. but it does not say that parents should play the primary role in protecting children from trafficking. often they are unaware of the dangers to their children or are not interested in their children's leisure activities. as part of the prevention, i repeatedly propose a europe-wide campaign entitled: 'do you know where your child is now?' this campaign should alert parents to the dangers facing their children. i believe that the only way to protect children from trafficking is to work with their parents. unfortunately, the parents are not mentioned in the entire draft resolution.
the programme you have presented is very ambitious, it has the potential to move the european union very far forward, and as i have had the opportunity to meet with several members of your government, i know that these are women and men who are very skilled and well prepared to implement this programme, so i congratulate you. i am particularly looking forward to working with the ministers of justice and the minister of the interior, because this is the area i am dealing with as vice-president of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, and we have a whole series of work and measures ahead of us here, which we also discussed yesterday in the evening session before us, and which relate in particular to the area of justice and home affairs, which the spanish presidency has just taken on with courage. there are many questions and many solutions to be found in the area of the fundamental rights of citizens of the european union, both in the substantive and procedural rights of the subjects of civil and criminal proceedings, as well as in the protection of the social dimension of european policy. we have to address issues that are related to immigration, asylum, that are related to immigration, and i believe that we have to...
democracy lives on conditions it cannot create. this is true for our member states and it is also true for democracy in turkey. there are many problematic issues, but i will touch on just one. although the republic of turkey recognizes freedom of worship, religious freedom has not made much progress in recent years. freedom of worship is formally recognized, but in fact limited, for example in the choice of location. i regret that the eu is not addressing this problem consistently. in the last evaluation report, which is 180 pages long, only two problems are mentioned. nowhere does it mention strong restrictions on the autonomous management of religious communities, not only in terms of administrative and economic planning, but also in terms of pastoral and spiritual planning. as the council of european bishops' conferences has long noted the permanent violation of religious freedom in turkey, the european union should consistently insist on respect for human rights in the context of freedom of religion.
for the efd group. in accordance with the conclusions of the european council of june 2009, the european commission has started work on the preparation of a european union strategy for the danube region in order to improve cooperation in the danube basin states and to help boost the economic and social development of the region. the proposed strategy is intended to provide a basis for the coordination of the activities of the participating countries within the framework of existing european union programmes, without additional requirements for specific finances, institutions or legislation. the european commission will provide technical and coordination support. the project envisages the creation of a space for cooperation with non-eu countries. i would like to express my appreciation and support for the european council's initiative to establish a european union strategy for the danube region. i am convinced that such coordinated international cooperation will allow for more effective protection of the danube's ecosystems, which will thus be protected jointly by all the countries through which the river flows. after all, the quality of drinking water for millions of europeans depends solely on the purity of the danube. it is therefore natural that the protection of the watercourse and its wider environment from pollution should be one of the main pillars of the above-standard cooperation of the participating countries. another ambitious objective of the danube strategy is to complete the danube waterway according to parameters approved by the danube commission. the west-east water corridor would thus acquire a new significant economic dimension and would also allow the navigation of the larger tributaries of the danube. such a new impetus to economic growth will also bring a host of job opportunities. at a time when europe is looking for renewable, clean energy sources, the danube river offers a powerful, inexhaustible source of this energy. it is only necessary to dust some hydropower plans, assess them in terms of environmental impact, efficiency and return and implement them. i am convinced that the idea of developing a common european union strategy for the danube region is a good one and deserves our political support.
as a slovak member of this parliament, i would like to welcome the initiative to work out the adoption and implementation of a european strategy for the danube region. i believe that this project will contribute to its more active development. i am also pleased that this strategy has been included in the 18-month programme of the future presidencies of the european union. i hope it will become one of the real priorities for the next period. i am also convinced that this project will contribute to the development of transport, that it will contribute to the protection of the environment, that it will become a suitable platform for closer cooperation between the regions concerned in many areas. however, i would also like to point out that the development of this strategy should place greater emphasis on environmental protection, and in particular on the protection of drinking water. it is likely that in the near future, drinking water resources will be of great strategic importance, not only from a local but also from a pan-european perspective. in this context, the future strategy should pay attention to improving groundwater supplies and to the removal of pollution from the danube. i would also like to express my support for the inclusion in this project of some non-eu countries, in particular croatia, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina and montenegro, and two others. i hope that this project will contribute to improving cooperation between the union and these countries of the region. in conclusion, i would like to call on the commission to take the utmost responsibility in drawing up this strategy, and to base it on realistic objectives and means, especially as some countries currently have exaggerated expectations of it.
the danube is already a traditional macro-region with great economic, social and cultural potential, whose integration and sustainable economic development need to be systematically and effectively deepened. i therefore welcome and support the steps leading to the development of a coherent and comprehensive strategy for the danube region at european level. i believe that the content of the strategy for the danube region will be the real result of expert discussions based on a fair approach to all partners, so that no member state or group of only a few will gain above-standard advantages and treatment. i see transport infrastructure, sustainable economy and environmental protection as key areas. the danube waterway should form the basis of a network of transport corridors for all modes of transport as a pan-european transport artery. this would not only make it easier, but also contribute to the trend towards replacing road transport by shipping, which is less environmentally and economically demanding. to make the danube a driving force for economic development, it will be necessary to navigate some of its tributaries and to complete the connections and other transport corridors. infrastructure development should lead to overcoming the isolation of border regions, support small and medium-sized enterprises and also contribute to the development of the social area. however, when formulating the strategy, we must not forget about transport safety, environmental safety, flood protection and the fight against cross-border crime. increased connectivity with countries outside the area of freedom, security and justice must not facilitate the flow of international crime, nor facilitate smuggling and trafficking in human beings and so on. i would also like to stress that the implementation of the strategy must respect the competences of the member states and also regional and local authorities, who are close to the citizens and know their needs.
slovakia welcomes this initiative. the importance he attaches to the danube strategy is also underlined by the fact that the national coordinator is the deputy prime minister of the slovak republic. the initial draft national position for the danube strategy was discussed in the cabinet. it is also the work of individual ministries, regions, municipalities and businesses. the three pillars proposed by the commission, connectivity, environment and socioeconomic, are to form the basis of the whole strategy. in my view, in addition to these pillars, it is necessary to emphasise the mutual cooperation of the member states and non-member states of the european union in the danube basin. the comprehensive approach to the development of the danube region presupposes that the priorities of the countries must be addressed on an equal footing and in a mutually reinforcing context. i would therefore like to ask what cooperation is declared by non-member countries, and i am particularly interested in moldova and ukraine.
the danube was once a symbol of freedom for us slovaks. today, it's a symbol of cooperation for us. it links both eu member states and non-eu countries, and danube regional cooperation is a very good basis and prerequisite for cooperation to integrate these non-eu countries into the community. the strategy for this region is very important. not only because of the need to create a transport corridor and link the north and black seas, but also because this region is the largest reservoir of fresh drinking water in europe. and this aspect will become increasingly important in the face of global warming and climate change. the danube region needs to be protected against flooding and its sustainable development for future generations ensured. the danube must remain a symbol for future generations. it connects several capitals, including the two closest capitals in the world, bratislava and vienna, but also bratislava and budapest, and this is a really important and symbolic fact for us, the people of central europe. i would like to thank adriana ţicău for her enthusiasm in bringing this debate to the european parliament.
thank you for pointing out again the violation of freedom of religion in some countries, as you did in 2007 and 2008. i ask whether this is a weakness or indifference on the part of the eu to be more consistent in its promotion of human rights in this area. we hear the same complaints over and over again and we propose the same measures. egypt and malaysia are among the countries where christians live in extremely dangerous conditions, are persecuted, driven from their homes, kidnapped, murdered, their churches are closed. it's happening from the maghreb to iran, but also in india, china, pakistan and many others. christians are persecuted mostly by extremist currents. but it is a danger to all christians, jews and muslims. i ask the eu representatives and the individual delegations of the european parliament to use all the possibilities to improve dialogue, religious tolerance and respect, and the coexistence of different cultures.
in writing. the larger a country is geographically and the more economically independent it is, the more difficult it is to require it to respect human rights. i find it unacceptable that the european union has repeatedly put economic interests first in its relations with china. at almost every high-level diplomatic meeting, we have the audacity to bring up the issue of human rights violations in this country. in europe, we have unfortunately had a rich negative experience with the practices of communist regimes in the suppression of human rights. i therefore remain convinced that the number of human rights violations is far higher than we are informed. it is therefore of the utmost importance and urgency that we succeed in getting china to respect human rights, even at the cost of economic and political sacrifice. otherwise, the development of the situation in china may have an adverse impact on the overall development of the political situation in asia, with a consequent impact on the overall world economy and politics.
slovakia is threatened by the construction of a mega casino with the misleading name metropolis. as slovenia, hungary and austria have refused to issue the necessary permits, interest groups are now turning to slovakia to impose this business plan on it. the bratislava parliament expressed its negative opinion. the decision is not final and the gambling project continues. the investor is already using euphemisms when presenting the project as a multifunctional centre. he's talking about the playground, the water park, the convention center, not the mega casino. what are the barriers of the european union to prevent gambling in the member states? how does the european union protect the most vulnerable groups? it is no secret that gambling is linked to crime, violence, organized crime, prostitution, and various addictions. i call on my colleagues, as well as national associations, to join the protest of slovak citizens and at the same time sign a written declaration and thus support our protest.
i am sure mr tarabella will forgive me for not thanking him for the report, but i would like to thank mr spidla in particular, who is probably the last commissioner to be here, and i would like to highlight the commitment he has shown to equality, to women's employment and similar issues. there are a number of questions about the report. i want to highlight at least two of them: one is the gender pay gap. the latest data shows a difference of over 17%. not only is the improvement slow, but it's not clear, because this number is higher than it was two years ago. and we don't really see what the consequences of the crisis are going to be. from daily practice, we can assume that there is probably no improvement in the short term. what is fundamentally unacceptable, however, is the fact that the differences do not occur in the case of new entrants but when mothers return to the labour market after maternity or parental leave. in a europe in demographic crisis, this is in itself sobering and totally unacceptable. the eu rules clearly prohibit such discrimination. as mentioned above, the relevant legal standard dates from 1975 and it is also clear that this directive, along with so many others, is completely ineffective. i am very pleased that mr spidla said that we can expect in 2010 a report on what the commission intends to do to make legislation more effective. i would like to say just one more sentence about the women's bill of rights. it is much more likely and much more urgent that the laws, the effectiveness of existing laws, the accessibility of existing laws, than a new legal norm, which will be just as ineffective as the previous ones.
madam president, commissioner, the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleague mrs tarabella, who joined us in the committee on women's rights at the last european elections, is ambitious. i refer in particular to paragraph 20: 'parliament calls for the creation of a european charter of women's rights'. if we know the history of european integration, we should remember that the treaty of rome already provided for the principle of equality between women and men in the labour market. laws for equal treatment between women and men exist in all member states. a simple solution is to apply for new charters. it is more demanding to apply the existing instruments. in fact, if we do not remove paragraph 20 from this draft resolution, we will add a fourth instrument to the council of europe's european convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the newly created institute for gender equality, which will take the form of a new special charter for the promotion of women. i have a few questions. what would be the use of a new charter of women's rights? what would be the added value? there are none. it is a mistake to think that a charter will solve women's problems. the natural law which must guide our thinking and responsible political action does not grant any particular rights. no one can say that the legal instruments ignore women's rights. that would be intellectually dishonest and factually false. that is why i am voting against paragraph 20. the question of the charter is the main question. if paragraph 20 remains in the draft resolution, i cannot support it. finally, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your cooperation with the committee on women's rights during your term of office.
i would like to begin by saying that i think it is right that the european parliament is consistently concerned with gender equality. i just can't help but feel that our european politics is suffering from a severe, but very severe, schizophrenia. let me quote from a recent agency report. sixteen-year-old medina memi, from the town of kahta in turkey's adiyaman province, was buried alive by her family in a chicken coop outside the family home. the cops found her lying in a chair buried six feet underground. an autopsy revealed that the girl had a large amount of dirt in her lungs and stomach. the girl's father calmly confessed to the police, saying that he had buried her because she had boyfriends. ladies and gentlemen, in turkey and similar countries, women and girls are killed in this way, for example, just for talking to a strange man. if we are serious about gender equality, how can we even entertain the idea that a country with such an approach to the fairer sex is part of our civilized europe? gender equality is not just about accounting for small differences in income, but it is above all about the right to life, a human dignity that is denied to women in many of our neighbouring countries over and over again.
it is true that over the past thirty years the european union has done much to improve the status and rights of women. the most striking difference, however, that persists and even deepens, is in the pay of men and women. women earn almost 20% less on average, while the gender pay gap also has a significant impact on women's lifetime earnings and pensions, and we are increasingly accustomed to the feminization of poverty. the pay gap is linked to a number of legal, social and economic factors, the scope of which is broader and goes beyond the issue of equal pay for equal work. we should also try to remove, through a europe-wide campaign, the centuries-old prejudices about the nature of being the ones who wear the pants and the lesser ones who wear the skirts. we need to talk openly about the issues of domestic violence and the white meat trade, which are still taboo, and, of course, about the inclusion of gender equality in the teaching process of primary school students. and finally, i would like to ask one question to all of you as we sit here. how does society value and protect women as unique and exceptional beings, as the bearers of life, so that we regard international women's day as a socialist experience?
in writing. today's february 2010 plenary session marks the real beginning of institutional cooperation for the next five years. while parliament started its internal work after the european elections and quickly concluded the distribution of posts of responsibility and its internal rules of procedure, it took us some time to set up the mechanisms for interinstitutional cooperation between the council and the commission in the light of the lisbon treaty. the parallel dynamic with the appointment of future commissioners certainly facilitated the introduction of a right of legislative initiative now granted to the european parliament. the commission is now required to report on the practical follow-up given to all requests for legislative initiative within three months of adopting a legislative initiative report under article 225 of the tfeu. if the european parliament so requests by a simple majority, the commission must submit a legislative proposal within one year or include it in the work programme for the following year. i call on all people of good will to follow parliament's work closely, because it is obvious that members will use this provision, particularly in the area of universal social ethics.
in writing. i voted for the draft resolution and, therefore, for the new european commission. the european parliament does not give a blank check to mr barroso and the college of commissioners. but i met president barroso very regularly throughout his first term as i was also chairing the work of the parliament's committee on women's rights. i have thus seen his sensitivity to directing the work of the european commission with respect for the human person and the common good. i am also very happy for the slovak candidate who was subjected to unjust attacks provoked by ignorance for purely political purposes. where slander and minorities are used, through a "campaign of shame", to denigrate the integrity of a political figure for political purposes, the decline of institutional political culture begins. i wish all the members of the european commission a very good job.
why should the european union bear the consequences of american policy? it's easier to say, alibistically, that america and its president, who is fulfilling his campaign promise, which, by the way, many of the leading politicians publicly supported, should deal with this big and despised problem on his own. but the european union has a lot to do with it. terrorists have threatened and killed in the european union and continue to threaten the whole world, of which the european union is an integral part. have we forgotten the london underground, germany, the netherlands, spain and the dozens of failed terrorist attacks? that's why america and i are in this together. it affects all of us. rather, our attention at this stage should focus in particular on preventing and eliminating negative impacts on these persons, making every effort to assist them in their social reintegration, so that they can return to normal life and begin a proper civic life with their families.
regional policy aims to eliminate economic and social disparities. the eu has 27 member states, divided into 271 regions. in every fourth region, gdp per capita is 75% below the eu-27 average. that number is alarming. european regional policy brings added value to actions that are implemented directly on the ground. it helps to finance specific projects for the benefit of regions, cities and towns and their inhabitants. last year, a very positive step was taken when the era amended the regulation on the european regional development fund to make it available to all member states to reduce the energy performance of buildings. today we have concrete positive results. in many places, not only do we have insulated buildings, but also the aesthetic value and quality of housing and the reduction in housing costs are not negligible. i am a member of parliament from eastern slovakia, a region that is among those that are well below the eu average. i therefore welcome the new proposal for a regulation which aims to extend the right to housing to the benefit of marginalised groups. in the 21st century, many groups of people live in an undignified way. their social status does not allow them to improve housing for themselves and their children. cities and towns will therefore be able to gradually integrate this group of their inhabitants into the majority. i welcome this proposal and will support it together with my slovak colleagues from the s&d group.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate zoran thaler on his report and thank him and all other colleagues for their very constructive work in preparing this draft resolution. a sincere welcome to commissioner füle, and my best wishes for the success of his future work. the european people’s party considers that fyrom went through many positive developments during the last year. the progress it made in fulfilling most of the criteria towards starting eu accession negotiations is indeed both significant and remarkable. the fact that the commission has recommended the opening of negotiations with fyrom should be seen as a clear message that this country is on the right track. parliament should therefore stand firmly behind this recommendation and, by adopting this resolution, send a positive signal to the country and indeed the whole region. i hope the european council will confirm the commission’s decision and the call included in this resolution, and will give the green light for negotiations with fyrom in the near future without further delay. i also believe that up until this happens the negotiations on the name issue will progress and relations with neighbouring countries will get better. fyrom should rise to the challenge and show that it is ready to fulfil all the copenhagen criteria, on the basis of which its ambitions to become a member of the eu should be assessed.
i would like to begin by saying that i consider the reports on croatia and macedonia to be good, well prepared and i think that the work of the rapporteurs should be appreciated and the adoption of these reports encouraged. as for turkey, i feel that we are playing a bit of a game of hide and seek in this area. the turkish administration outwardly declares efforts for change, but in the real life of society, not much changes. fathers still sell their daughters, trade them for cattle. men who buy their wives treat them like slaves. i am convinced that this process of civilizational convergence will be complicated and lengthy and will not be easy for us or for turkish society. so i think that in this case we have to arm ourselves with patience, we have to be prepared for long negotiations, but in these negotiations we have to behave correctly, honestly, talk openly about all the problems. it is in the interests of both us and the turkish people, and if this problem is resolved and brought to a successful conclusion, it will be a success for both europe and turkey.
croatia is demonstrating its commitment to become a member of the european union by making clear progress in meeting the criteria. political will was reflected in reforms of public administration, the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime. in the field of justice, there has been an increase in transparency, a reduction in the number of pending court proceedings and excessive length of proceedings. the continued clarification of war crimes, in which croatia is fully cooperating with the international criminal tribunal, is an important factor. croatia has a good degree of alignment with the acquis communautaire. it is undergoing major legislative and institutional changes to combat organised crime, the mafia and strengthening cross-border cooperation with law enforcement in neighbouring countries. croatia's banking sector is viable, investors have confidence in the state of its economy and macroeconomic stability has been maintained. the need remains to complete a programme of small privatisation and to reduce state intervention in the economy. i find particularly commendable the reconciliation of ethnic croats and ethnic serbs, the improvement of the protection of minority rights, the programme for the integration of refugees, including the rehabilitation of housing. i therefore encourage croatia to deepen the development of a culture of political responsibility and to open a public debate on membership and the consequences of accession, as only one third of the population so far considers joining the european union to be beneficial, and i want to congratulate the new commissioner, mr füllem, whom i welcome in office.
the human rights situation in iran continues to deteriorate, despite the european parliament's resolution of 22 october on iran, which in my view did not bring the expected moral compass. i find particularly shocking and deplorable the executions of juvenile offenders, of whom some 140 have been executed in iran to date. one of the latest was the execution of 17-year-old mosleh zamani in december 2009. sadly, the prevention of child executions does not seem to be a political priority on the international stage. iran will not face any consequences for continuing this abhorrent practice, despite the fact that the islamic republic of iran is a party to the convention on the rights of the child and the international covenant on civil and political rights. i therefore call on the european union to take concrete and decisive action, making full use of the new opportunities offered by the lisbon treaty.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to support this resolution. the copenhagen summit was a disappointment in many respects. the eu failed especially in demonstrating a unified and efficient approach to climate change treatment, as well as in strengthening its leading political position in this agenda. i consider, therefore, taking this resolution, an act of utmost importance, in order to demonstrate the unbroken spirit and determination of the eu as the leading force in the world in combating climate change. we have to enhance and promote further activities aimed at climate change treatment.
every country seeking to join the european union must not only formally meet, but also internally identify with, minimum requirements in the field of democracy and respect for human rights. turkey has a very long way to go, according to the 2009 progress report. while committed to reforms, good neighbourly relations and gradual approximation to the standards and values of the european union, it has not implemented the provisions of the association agreement between the european community and turkey for the fourth year running. i find it unacceptable to consider membership in a country where women's rights, freedom of religion, thought and expression are violated, where torture, discrimination and corruption are tolerated and the military continues to interfere in political life and foreign policy. one of the reforms should be the reform of the electoral system by reducing the 10% threshold to ensure a better pluralist democracy.
in writing. the resolution aims to amend council vat directive 2006/112/ec to allow the temporary application of the self-liquidation mechanism to counter fraud in the trading of emission allowances and transactions in certain goods susceptible to fraud. tax evasion is a major problem for the proper functioning of the internal market and threatens the tax revenues of the member states. this is why several of them have asked to be able to combat fraudulent mechanisms by means of a self-liquidation system targeted at certain sectors susceptible to fraud and certain assets. the most common form of fraud is when a supplier registered for vat invoices for the supply of goods and then disappears without paying the vat due on those supplies, but leaves the purchaser (also subject to vat) with a valid invoice allowing the latter to deduct the tax. the national finance ministries therefore do not collect the vat due on the supplies concerned and he must refund to the next operator in the chain the vat paid in advance by the latter. the member state therefore loses twice. that is why i voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. this regulation provides for financial support from the erdf for housing interventions for marginalised communities in the new member states. a large majority of these communities live in rural areas and in shelters (both rural and urban). they cannot receive 'feder' support. housing assistance can be provided in the context of urban development operations and in the form of renovation of existing houses. support for housing interventions in rural areas or for the replacement of poor quality housing in urban or rural areas may not be eligible for the erdf. to avoid unjustified discrimination, interventions targeting roma should not exclude other groups sharing similar socioeconomic circumstances. moreover, as interventions are only part of a complex problem, they should be addressed in an integrated, multidimensional approach, to be defined at national level, with strong partnerships and taking into account aspects related to education, social, integration, culture, health, employment, security, etc. the aim of the proposal is to provide, in an integrated approach, acceptable housing conditions.
in writing. the directive aims to improve administrative cooperation in tax matters. there is a need for mutual assistance in this area now more than ever. the mobility of taxpayers, the number of cross-border transactions and the internationalisation of financial instruments are all undergoing considerable change. it is difficult for member states to establish correctly the amount of taxes and charges to be collected. this growing difficulty has repercussions on the functioning of tax systems and leads to a phenomenon of double taxation, which encourages tax fraud and evasion, with controls remaining the responsibility of the national authorities. the proper functioning of the internal market is thus threatened. the automatic exchange of information between member states would be mandatory for the remuneration of directors, dividends, capital gains, royalties and life insurance proceeds not covered by other community legal instruments on the exchange of information and other similar measures; pensions and property ownership and income therefrom. in order to improve the exchange of information between the various national authorities, it is also proposed to monitor cases where member states have refused to provide information or to carry out an administrative inquiry. all these measures help to combat tax evasion, which is why i voted in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. the council directive aims at a fundamental revision of the operation of mutual assistance for the recovery of claims relating to taxes, duties and other measures. national provisions on recovery shall apply only within the respective territory of the member states. administrative authorities do not have the possibility of collecting taxes and duties themselves outside their own member state. at the same time, the mobility of people and capital is increasing, and fraudsters are taking advantage of the territorial limitation of the powers of the member states' authorities to organise their insolvency in the countries where they have tax debts. the first provisions on mutual assistance for recovery were laid down in directive 76/308/eec (codified by directive 2008/55/ec) on mutual assistance for the recovery of claims relating to certain levies, duties, taxes and other measures. however, this instrument has proved insufficient to respond to the developments in the internal market over the past 30 years. it is therefore necessary to repeal the current directive and to provide for an improved system of recovery assistance within the internal market, which will ensure the speed, efficiency and uniformity of procedures throughout the european union. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. in the event of a natural disaster, humanitarian aid must be provided without delay. in haiti, only the us was able to provide effective humanitarian aid without bureaucratic delays. it has also been shown that the most rapid and effective humanitarian actors are those who are regularly condemned in the resolutions of our illustrious assembly: the catholic church and humanitarian initiatives of christian origin. in its resolution, which i fully support, parliament calls on the international community to ensure that the haitian people and their government are the main actors in the reconstruction process so that they can be in control of their common future. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. now that the international community is investing in the rebuilding of earthquake-resistant infrastructure, i would like to draw attention to the fact that religious buildings have also suffered and that international funds should also be allocated to rebuild churches and seminaries.
in writing. the islamic republic of iran continues to denounce the mistreatment of muslims around the world. but the mullahs will not stop the persecution of christians and we will not denounce the conditions for christians. conversion to christianity is considered a form of apostasy and punishable by death. unfortunately, the european parliament does not have the courage to denounce the situation of the christian martyrs in iran. john paul ii said: "persecution includes various forms of discrimination against believers and against the whole community of the church. such forms of discrimination are often practised at the same time as the right to religious freedom and freedom of conscience is recognised, both in the law of individual countries and in declarations of an international nature. ... today, besides prison, concentration camps, forced labor camps, and expulsion from one's country there are other punishments less known but more subtle: not violent death but a kind of civil death, not only isolation in prisons or in a camps but social discrimination or permanent restriction of personal liberty". if parliament is to take its call for respect for human rights seriously, it should make a clearer commitment to the persecuted christians in iran.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because i am myself committed to the fight against human trafficking in slovakia. i started the "know where your child is now" campaign. the committee on women's rights, in its deliberations on the budgetary procedure, therefore adopted an amendment to 'launch a multiannual european campaign in the media on the theme 'do you know where your child is at this moment?' in close cooperation with civil society organisations, in order to promote awareness of parental responsibility, to improve the protection of children against all forms of violence and to combat trafficking in children more effectively'. this new resolution, which i warmly welcome, articulates the demands along five main lines: general aspects, information gathering, prevention, prosecution and protection, support and assistance to victims. the commission is invited to take initiatives, in particular on information and prevention, in order to identify the root causes of trafficking and the factors likely to facilitate trafficking in human beings in the countries of origin and destination. i am very much looking forward to raising awareness among parents to take their parental responsibility for their children seriously so that children and adolescents are not victims of human trafficking.
in writing. the international conference in copenhagen was a failure. however, this agreement is a first step involving most parties and provides a basis for reduction commitments, financing, measurement, notification and verification of mitigation actions, and the fight against deforestation. in supporting the resolution, i express my wish for the establishment of a 'climate diplomacy' at international level, the main objective of which should be the protection of creation. parliament also announced that the eu's collective contribution to the mitigation efforts and adaptation needs of developing countries should not be less than eur 30 billion per year by 2020, with the understanding that this figure may increase as new knowledge emerges about the severity of climate change and the scale of its costs. beyond all environmental romanticism, we must not forget our european industry. that is why i believe it is essential for the competitiveness of our european industry that comparable efforts are made by other industrialised nations outside the eu, as well as reasonable reduction commitments by developing countries and emerging economies. reduction targets must be measurable, noticeable and verifiable by all, in the interest of climate justice.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. it divides more than it unites men and women. the wording of paragraph 36 is not innocent: "women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, including through easy access to contraception and abortion". the rapporteur also stresses that women should have access to free consultation on abortion. but abortion is a matter for the member states alone. this resolution is not legally binding and cannot be used to lobby for the liberalization of abortion. the house also called for the fight against gender stereotypes, in particular the family work done by women and men. the resolution stresses the importance of childcare facilities for preschool children and childcare services as well as assistance for the elderly and other dependants. the parliament is thus seeking to destroy the natural family as a place of socialisation and solidarity between generations. this resolution does not add any value to women, men or the union. it is a pity, because respect for otherness and the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men is a real social issue.
in writing. the washington convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, known as cites, is an international agreement between states. all the member states are party to it. its purpose is to ensure that international trade in wild plant and animal specimens does not threaten the survival of the species to which they belong. the international trade in wildlife is estimated to be worth billions of dollars a year and involves hundreds of millions of plant and animal specimens. unfortunately, the eu is one of the main markets for illegal wildlife trade. the existence of an agreement guaranteeing sustainable trade is important to preserve these resources for the future. within the eu, national legislation varies from one member state to another. in order to better protect wildlife, the coordination of efforts by member states and the european institutions to ensure compliance with the european union legislation on trade in wildlife should be strengthened. the union must also assert itself vis-à-vis the other parties to cites. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. the resolution on croatia is a political resolution with no legally binding force. i voted in favour of it because croatia should become a member state in the near future. without the war in the balkans, it would have been since 2004. paragraph 21, as controversial as it is useless, on the "lgbt minority" was introduced in plenary. i voted against that paragraph. croatia is a party to both the united nations universal declaration of human rights and the council of europe's european convention on human rights. so it is unfounded to suspect croatia of being a nation "hostile to the lgbt minority". despite all the symbolic pressure, croatia retains full national competence in non-discrimination-related areas. i therefore invite the croatian family associations, whom i recently met during a visit to their countries, to continue their excellent work for the common good of their nation and a better future for all in europe. the ability to assume the obligations arising from accession to the union and alignment with the acquis communautaire must not lead to the denial of the traditional national culture of the future member states.
they say a good deal is made by equal partners. the agreement that is being prepared at the moment does not mean that we are equal partners, but rather that the united states of america demands and expects us to fulfil its dreams. but after the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has much more power, and the task of us here is to defend the interests and the rights, the fundamental rights, of the 500 million citizens of the member states of the european union. that is why i also support the proposal to revise this treaty and to incorporate in it those proposals which we, the members of the european parliament, who are the only directly elected members of all the institutions of the european union, expect to be incorporated in this treaty. i know that there are countries in the european union that have a huge problem with terrorism. finally, spain is one of the countries which has been fighting terrorism for a long time, and i believe that the council will be a partner for the european parliament in this case, not for the united states of america.
terrorism has no values and no deeper meaning. the only goal of terrorism is death. civilian deaths, and at the lowest cost. it could be the story of a bunch of suicide bombers. the sad part is that terrorism has led us to adopt measures which are designed to protect the same civilian population, but which restrict the rights of the same civilian population. it would therefore be very good if this plenary ever adopted the scanners, so that we could start thinking about adopting legislation and harmonizing in the field of justice and home affairs at the same time, because adopting new technological measures alone will not really help us in the fight against terrorism.
the financial crisis caused by the us financial sector quickly turned into an economic crisis which immediately affected all areas of economic life. its legitimate consequence was a rapid decline in the purchasing power of the population, a decline in production, an increase in unemployment, lower fiscal revenues and less money to finance public budgets. if production has declined worldwide, it is natural that the turnover of trade in goods must have declined with the decline in production. so if anyone asks today how to achieve stability, or even increase in the volume of world trade, yes, dear friends, only by effective measures to stop the economic downturn, measures to stabilize the economy and gradually start economic growth. the current economic system is so interconnected, so globalized, that to rely on limited artificial interventions in partial sectors that do not produce added value is, i think, a superfluous illusion.
mr president, during the last few months the eu has experienced several changes and transitions. we have had three commissioners on international trade, two eu council presidents and the lisbon treaty. during that time i argued with all the top officials about the need to fine-tune the south korea-eu fta, so as to get on board deeply dissatisfied industries, particularly the eu automotive industry. the strongest arguments were mainly in the area of ddb safeguards and non-tariff barriers. when the new commissioner, in response to my question during the hearings, stated that ddb deserved a closer look, i felt optimistic. even the usa has shelved its fta with south korea partly because of similar objections from the car industry. this is the first major fta. this is a template. we need to do it right. there must be a level playing field for both parties. please do not get me wrong. i am a strong proponent of ftas. i understand their positive impact on gdp and employment, but we should also understand that, when the competitive advantage is one-sided, benefits will diminish and in the worst case could even be negative. employees in the eu deserve better. perhaps we should turn to our transatlantic partner and together demand small adjustments which would at least partially satisfy these giant industries and get new ftas to work as soon as possible. there will always be some unsatisfied elements, but all in all, ftas must be beneficial to citizens of both sides. it is my responsibility to monitor the situation and ensure that my constituents, and eu citizens, get a fair deal.
for the efd group. with regard to the subject of online gambling, i would like to point out two areas where i see a number of unresolved problems. we're trying to make communication between people as open as possible. this includes open access to the internet for children and young people. the european parliament, in its resolution of 10 march 2009, points 16 to the fact that the responsibility for protecting underage children from gambling online lies with their parents. gentlemen, i ask you: what is this nonsense? who creates the legislative framework, who creates the rules for this kind of business? parents or someone else? we are the ones who are responsible for this business, we create the legislative framework, we create the laws, so governments, parliaments, they are responsible for protecting children from gambling and gambling. at a time when pornography and gambling are entering homes in 3d, parents have no hope of protecting their children from these influences and preventing them from engaging in such activities. i therefore think that it is the fundamental duty of the commission, of the european parliament, to create a legal framework, not to represent in this case by their inaction those who are doing business, but to represent those who are electing them and to whom they are accountable. the other problem i'd like to point out is the control of the flow of money. in individual countries, the money from gambling and other gambling-related activities is used to support sports, culture, and education. if we have a financial flow from individual countries to the bahamas and to tax havens, i wonder if some of that money will go back to supporting sports in individual countries. because when you're doing business and gambling online, the profits are generated somewhere other than the countries where the players come from. this problem is also not being tackled and addressed enough, and i think it is really necessary for the european commission to wake up and start working on a framework for this kind of business, to create conditions that do not endanger the health and education of children and at the same time do not lose the funds that go to gambling.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that we have adopted this programme and i am happy that i have been able to vote in favour of it, at a time when our countries are struggling with economic crisis and unemployment is ten per cent or above in many of our countries. this package will be a great help to all of us. thank you very much for the speaker and i would also like to say that i am glad that you have reached an agreement that not the progress package will be the 100 million, but only a part of it, it is a very good agreement, thank you very much and hopefully it will benefit everyone.
the european commission has concluded an agreement with the united states on the transfer of personal data of citizens of the european union to the us intelligence services. an agreement which is very unfavourable, unbalanced for the european union. we believe that this agreement, as presented to the european parliament, could not be accepted because we are responsible for protecting the rights of citizens of the european union and cannot allow their data to be processed in the united states by intelligence services for 99 years. the agreement was absurd in its construction, unbalanced and allowed, i would say, the misuse of personal data of european union citizens. it is therefore good that the european parliament has decided to reject such an agreement and force the european commission to start working on a new agreement that is balanced and that balances the rights of americans and europeans.
i'd like to comment on the vote we just took on sharp objects and injuries in hospital settings and in doctor's wards. it must be said that this issue has been underestimated for a long time. a lot of injuries, whether it's in surgery, or in the emergency room, or in the specialist's office, it happens that either a nurse or a doctor injures themselves with a needle or a scalpel that's infected with the excrement of a patient who's infected with an infectious disease. we are increasingly seeing that nurses in particular can contract hepatitis, but it is not unusual for them to contract hiv and aids from such manipulation. i want to support the european parliament's and our efforts to protect doctors and nurses in preventive measures and also when they are interested in compensation, so that they are granted this right.
in writing. the commission has proposed the creation of a new european microfinance facility for employment (microfinance facility) to enable the unemployed to make a fresh start and to make entrepreneurship accessible to some of the most disadvantaged groups in europe, including young people, in the wider context of the economic recovery plan. all institutions should pay more attention to the poorest workers. is it enough to work to not be poor ? does employment or social assistance offer sufficient protection against the loneliness or fragility that leads to indifference? it is true that work integrates the individual into a collective. but that's not enough to become a citizen, and experience shows that! families living in poverty show that work is much more than a source of income. it is easy to set up programmes for the unemployed, but it is more important to help the poorest and those furthest from the labour market. i therefore welcome the important role played by the european fourth world committee intergroup in facilitating the exchange of views between colleagues and with representatives of organised civil society.
i'll try to be brief, to keep to the limit. i am sorry that the president of the commission is no longer here, but i think that the person who is responsible for interinstitutional cooperation is sitting here. and so i would like to speak, as one of the important points for the success of the strategy 2020, in particular, about the need for the european union's institutions to stop competing with each other and to really work together on the instruments without which the objectives of the strategy 2020 cannot be achieved. it is also very important that national egoisms really become national responsibility and responsibility at european level, because without opening up the issue of social policy harmonization, tax policy harmonization as soon as possible, it will not be possible to achieve the objectives relating to economic policy or our common european economy, which will make us a truly competitive country in the global world.
the goldstone report, whose conclusions and recommendations we're discussing, ignores israel's right to self-defense. last year's israeli assault on gaza was brutal, and i personally feel sorry for the victims and their families. but we must not forget that it was the culmination of a long-standing palestinian attack on the densely populated areas of israel. hamas recently declared that it is ready for dialogue with the international community, including the european union and the united states. i strongly urge that we not toy with this idea until hamas clearly recognizes israel's right to exist and renounces violence. we regret the victims of this long conflict, but peace negotiations need a reliable palestinian partner, and therefore a legitimate, credible and responsible representative of the palestinian people. if that does not happen, hundreds of pages of international advice will be in vain. i also want to stress the role of egypt, which must act swiftly to prevent any aid to terrorists smuggling weapons through underground tunnels into gaza.
what we are witnessing these days on the scene in belarus is an alarming example of the political repression of the democratic opposition and the polish minority. imprisonment of political opponents, intimidation of minority representatives are well-known practices of authoritarian regimes. as a slovak citizen and a representative of a minority, i understand the situation of the polish minority and the situation of mrs borys in belarus. treating national minorities as enemies and hostages in the neighboring country is a reactionary political maneuver, usually used by political leaders who are facing difficulties. harassment of national minorities is part of the political practice in non-democratic regimes. minority rights are an integral part of universal human rights, as confirmed by the council of europe framework convention. therefore, the violation of minority rights, discrimination, harassment and intimidation of persons belonging to minorities cannot be considered as the internal affairs of the country. the blackmailing and threatening message from the belarusian government to the members of the european parliament by the country's ambassador is therefore totally unacceptable. mr president, the european parliament can only send the message to the belarusian government that its policy of suppressing the democratic opposition and threatening minorities is simply unacceptable.
fifteen years after the adoption of the beijing platform, there are obviously many things to talk about and many things worth talking about, but i would rather talk about what we do. we have only one tool in our hands, and that is the law. in the last 15 years, a lot has happened in the member states and at eu level, and big steps have been taken, mainly as a result of the adoption of discrimination laws. this was a real step forward in creating equal opportunities. it is true that we cannot be satisfied with community legislation, and often with national legislation, because we often see that the provisions in force are not sufficiently effective, and that the situation often changes very little after the laws have entered into force. for example, the gender pay gap, which has been prohibited by law for more than 30 years, has barely changed in the last 10 years and has sometimes shown an increasing trend. access to rights is a particular problem, as legal redress is often extremely costly and complex. the equality bodies responsible for monitoring anti-discrimination laws in the member states are generally poorly equipped, have few resources and are often exhausted by information and advice. hopefully this year we will also have a chance to see how effective the laws we are drafting and passing here are. it is clear that not everything can be solved in a most selective way, and stereotypes are difficult to change, although it should also be seen that the effectiveness of laws very often depends on it and fails. in conclusion, a single sentence: it is worthwhile to review the path we have taken from time to time, but we must also have a clear vision of where we are going. we have high hopes for the re-formulation of the 2020 strategy and we also have high hopes for the new strategy for equal opportunities.
if it weren't for the speaker, you and the minister, we'd be a women's union talking about how to improve gender equality. but it is undoubtedly one of the most important issues in modern society and at the moment, and i agree with mrs svensson that coordination of activities at all levels is also necessary. at european union level, in addition to the issue of persistent inequalities between women and men, there is also a lack of better gender-disaggregated development of agreed indicators, for example in the areas of women's poverty, violence against women or women's human rights. therefore, the commission should entrust eurostat with the task of intensifying relations in coordinating the collection of comparable data, whether from member states or from third countries, while at the same time pressing member states to cooperate actively with eurostat. nevertheless, the european union is one of the world leaders in gender equality and i think that the examples of good practice that we already have in the european union and in the member states should be shared at the global level as well. and we should take the good that we have done and bring it to the next round of negotiations. i believe that in five years, when it will be 20 years after beijing, we could finally celebrate greater progress in addressing global gender inequality.
in writing. the resolution does not reflect the full beijing action programme. as always, it is easier to rely on gender stereotypes, "reproductive health" not to mention abortion, cedaw, violence, quotas. are there not other problems for the vast majority of women and mothers in europe and the world? would it not be time to tackle other obstacles as well? point 9 of the beijing platform for action states that the objective is to empower all women. it is essential that all women can identify with public policies for equal opportunities, while respecting their natural differences and necessary complementarity, and not losing sight of the importance of national and regional particularities and historical, cultural and religious diversity. the implementation of the programme of action is the sovereign responsibility of each state, taking into account and strictly respecting the diverse religious and ethical values, cultural heritage and philosophical convictions of individuals and their communities. if the implementation of the beijing programme had respected these premises, we should not see much improvement in the situation of women. this resolution is a partisan sign that divides rather than unites.
let me express my solidarity with the people of madeira on behalf of the europe of freedom and democracy group and also express my conviction that european aid for the victims will come more quickly in this case than in haiti. i would like to believe that both the european commission and the portuguese government will respond more readily to the natural disaster in madeira than in previous cases. i would also like to support my colleagues who are calling for improvements to the mechanisms for delivering european union aid in the event of natural disasters, so that this aid is delivered quickly and efficiently.
for the efd group. the events of recent years have shown us that the energy security of the european union is more a wish than a reality. the energy systems of the member states of the european union are not sufficiently compatible, they are not sufficiently interconnected. this is why many countries could have been without heat and gas at the beginning of last year, despite the eu's solidarity and willingness to put them in the situation they were in. addressing this situation will require a major initiative by the european commission, and it is therefore necessary that the european commission be informed by the member states and the private sector in a qualified and informed manner for its work. for these reasons, the forthcoming council regulation on the notification of investment projects in the field of energy infrastructure can be considered a natural and necessary step in the continuation of the energy policy of the european union, responding to the current developments in the field of energy supply in the european union. the amendments contained in the report to this item improve the wording of the regulation and i therefore consider it right to support them.
the treaty of lisbon, which has strengthened the european union's competences in the field of energy policy, should be actively used to overcome difficulties and to prevent potential problems on the energy market. the provision of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure will contribute to identifying supply and demand gaps in the sector and thus to better shaping the common energy policy in a spirit of solidarity and to bringing member states closer together in the energy market. for the reasons stated above, i agree with the view that some adequate information on planned investments needs to be gathered in order for the european union to be able to make informed decisions on energy policy on the basis of a coherent picture and its state in all member states.
the reporter. − we all know that only by working together at european level can we meet the major challenges of the 21st century: climate change, the risky and expensive sources of raw materials and energy, economic globalisation and threats to our security. if europe is to face these challenges, it must have effective and comprehensive tools at its disposal. the treaty of lisbon provides for such instruments. in december we agreed the budget of the european institutions for 2010. it is precisely for the implementation of the lisbon treaty that our work on this budget did not end in december, but will continue until april. we are now in the initial phase of the treaty's entry into force, and the european union needs to have adequate resources at its disposal from the outset to implement the new policies. the treaty of lisbon has an impact on the whole range of services of the european parliament and the other institutions. as regards the european parliament, codecision will be increased significantly to 95% of legislation. the areas of freedom, security and justice, agriculture, fisheries, research and the structural funds have been added. the use of qualified majority voting in the council and the creation of a number of new legal bases in areas such as tourism, sport, energy, civil protection, administration, cooperation will be intensified. all this will enhance the legislative activity of the european union in general with a significant overall impact on the european parliament's powers and activities and thus on the need to strengthen the administration. the main priority of the amending budget proposed by the presidency of the european parliament in the context of the lisbon treaty is to ensure that the european parliament can perform its legislative function efficiently. it is worth recalling that back in 1988 the european parliament set itself a limit on its own needs. it identified this threshold at 20% of the total administrative costs of the institutions. in 2006, in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2007 to 2013, the european parliament agreed to this threshold as the maximum of the total administrative costs of the institutions. since 2006, the cost of the entry into force of the statute for members has increased for the european parliament, although on the other hand it is the statute for members that saves money in the budgets of the member states. today we also need to cover the costs of the new role of the european parliament under the treaty of lisbon. it should be said that the statute of members and the treaty of lisbon did not provide for a 20% capacity ceiling. despite the status of meps in the lisbon treaty, we in the committee on budgets insisted that the european parliament's 2010 budget respect the 20% ceiling of the original multiannual financial framework. we did that. however, when preparing the 2011 budget, we will need to set the new formula sensibly in order to ensure the sustainability of the budget in the period ahead. i would like to stress that the best way to make the budget sustainable is to create it on the basis of real needs, not on the basis of inflation rates. only this approach will allow the budget to reflect only real needs, thus increasing its transparency and efficiency.
the reporter. - at this point, i would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for your opinions and speeches, but also for seeking solutions in committee. i would like to remind you that in the 2010 budget we have established systemic measures that can bring financial savings and reduce the pressure on our ceilings. in october last year, we agreed in conciliation proceedings that the european parliament would carry out an organisational audit of the inlo directorate-general and the security service this year. the aim is to assess whether resources are being used in the best possible way. the audit results should be the starting point for further action and greater efficiency. i see further reserves in better use of own capacities in interpretation services or in the field of teleworking. i expect the european parliament, but also the other institutions, to keep up to date with how they plan to use temporarily unused capacity not only in language services but also in renting out premises, copy services, etc. i am convinced that budgetary savings will be achieved through a medium-term strategy on property and buildings, which will contribute to the sustainability of parliament's budget. the strategy will be presented by the european parliament's administration in a few days' time. thank you again for your cooperation and for the responsibility you take on, colleagues.
at the beginning of 2009, it became clear that the european union and the member states were unable to help each other in the event of a power or gas blackout. it has been shown that the power grids in the west and the east are not interconnected, have different parameters and are not compatible. it is therefore good that states and media suppliers provide crucial information on their energy supply capabilities to the european commission, which can then assess shortcomings in the european union's energy networks and security policy and inform individual countries about the reserves they have in their energy systems. in this context, i think we need to support the initiative of the council and the commission to provide and collect information on energy for the benefit of the european union.
the political leadership in ukraine has changed, but the population of ukraine has not. it is a population that is poor, but it lives in a country that is very rich and has enormous prospects. i think that in this respect the european union should continue its dialogue with ukraine and strive for a more intensive and effective dialogue. ukraine really needs help from the european union, it needs it first and foremost by the people, not the politicians, but the people of ukraine, and from the cooperation of ukraine and the european union can come a very strong tandem and a very strong cooperation, a very strong economic impulse. i am in favour of taking more initiative in this area.
in writing. i did not support this resolution which fails to stress the importance of human rights for christian minorities in the middle east. i regret the lack of courage to condemn the attacks on christian minorities in the middle east and to refer the matter to the human rights council. the united nations had proclaimed 2009 as the international year of human rights education. the union has proclaimed 2010 the 'european year against poverty'. we should be aware that extreme poverty has been recognized by the united nations as a violation of human rights. on the marble of the european parliament and the council of europe we have engraved the motto of 17 october - world day against poverty: 'where men are condemned to live in poverty, human rights are violated. to unite to enforce them is a sacred duty. father joseph wresinski. he was a priest. " our resolution fails to express our grave concern about extreme poverty as a violation of human rights. i therefore invite my colleagues on the fourth world committee to send a letter to the united nations peoples' delegates to express the european parliament's concern in this regard.
allow me to express my deep sympathy and solidarity with the victims of the natural disaster in madeira. the emergency requires flexible measures to ensure that people's basic needs are met and material assistance is provided in a timely manner, as well as to ensure that key infrastructure is rebuilt as quickly as possible. i hope that the portuguese authorities will calculate the amount of damage as soon as possible and that there will be no formal administrative obstacles to the granting of financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund. as the mobilisation of the solidarity fund requires the consent of the european parliament, i believe that parliament will be an example of a rapid reaction when taking a decision in this regard. let me say once again that i am in solidarity with the disaster in western france, the recent tidal wave in the vendée.
mr president, my contribution addresses the need for a unified approach to the recognition of kosovo. in adopting the lisbon treaty, our member states have accepted many new commitments. one of these is the new integrated and unified proceedings in foreign and neighbourhood policy. kosovo has been recognised as an independent state, so far, by 65 countries of the world, including 24 out of 28 nato countries and 22 out of 27 eu countries. this is the right time to encourage our hesitating member states, namely cyprus, greece, romania, slovakia and spain, to put aside their concerns in this matter and join the majority in recognising kosovo as soon as possible. this would be an important signal demonstrating the increasing unity and integration of the eu.
i agree with the amendment to the proposal for a regulation on the animal health requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of animals, which will facilitate de facto cross-border movements within the european union. i would also like to commend the rapporteur for the excellent quality of her report, including the measures leading to vaccination against rabies and other diseases, as well as other preventive measures. i am convinced that this is the way to achieve overall harmonisation of standards in the internal market of the european union, and to eliminate as far as possible the threat of transmission of these diseases. however, i am aware of the risks and threats that remain in transporting animals and therefore support a reasonable extension of the transitional period for member states such as malta and ireland or sweden where national regimes are more stringent. this is a prudent approach, which places particular emphasis on prevention and takes account of the specificities of the countries concerned.
the current economic crisis has clearly shown us that europe is becoming breathless and that it is no longer able to successfully keep pace with the dynamics of the economy and economic development in other parts of the world, such as asia. the organization of our business environment is cumbersome and rigid. look at the chinese or indian craftsman. how much time do you think he spends in his work filling out all sorts of reports and reports about his business? there is none. and look at our craftsman. for example, in my country, the law requires a craftsman to send the same data and reports on his business in different modifications to four different government institutions the tax office, the commercial register, the health insurance company, the statistical office. if he accidentally forgets something, he gets a hefty fine at best, or the authorities close his business. four state-created institutions live by bullying the entrepreneur and robbing him of time and resources because the whole bureaucratic crumb is fed on taxes from his work. after all, all the data could be collected for the state by one single, not very large agency. how can we cope? either we abolish the useless acts, simplify and make our administration more efficient and give more of our officials the opportunity to start living by honest craft, or we will end up like the notorious royal governors who were thrown out of the windows of prague castle in may 1618 by dissatisfied czech states. it would be good if we did the first one, and as soon as possible.
the coelho report and the draft regulation in question concern the free movement of persons, which is an essential element of democracy in the european union, and it is therefore unacceptable that holders of long-term visas in one member state of the european union should not be able to travel throughout the european union. there are several reasons for supporting these initiatives. first and foremost, it is respect for and observance of fundamental human rights, of which freedom of movement is undoubtedly one. if one member state legalises the residence of a third-country national, there is no reason why he or she cannot move freely within the schengen area. of course, the details need to be worked out in the sense of not lowering the level of security in the schengen area. it also referred to students and researchers who are unable to travel to another member state. i would also like to extend this group to include entrepreneurs, because if we do not allow them to do so, we are reducing the competitiveness of the european union. i therefore believe that this proposal will find support and i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. article 12 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union reaffirms the requirements of consumer protection in the definition and implementation of other union policies and actions. the commission must ensure that consumer interests are effectively integrated into all policies and examine in its impact assessments the potential effects of any new legislation and policies that directly or indirectly affect consumers. while consumer complaints are an important indicator of market dysfunctions, their absence does not always imply that markets are functioning well, as sometimes consumers tend to complain less, due to different consumer traditions or their perception of the likelihood that their complaint will be taken into account. consumer organisations have a key role to play in alerting public authorities to problems faced by consumers. the instruments should be optimised to improve the effectiveness of their intervention at all levels. i call on the member states to ensure that consumer organisations are properly consulted at all stages of the decision-making process and in the transposition and implementation of consumer legislation.
in writing. solvit was set up to solve problems faced by citizens and businesses due to the poor application of internal market legislation. all member states, as well as norway, iceland and liechtenstein, have established a national solvit centre. they cooperate directly to develop rapid and pragmatic solutions to the problems faced by citizens and businesses. the centres need legal advice on the legal merits of the problems they are faced with and on the proposed solutions. they have legal assistance both at their centre and in the responsible administration. in cases of divergent legal opinions on the case being dealt with jointly, complex legal issues or simply inadequate access to legal aid in their country, the centres often seek advice from the commission. states should ensure that the centres can easily consult lawyers in their own administration. the commission should accelerate the provision of informal legal assessments to centres on request. i welcome the commitment to monitoring european legislation and its application by the member states. it is not enough for the european co-legislators to introduce laws which create more problems than they solve.
author. − if you have all the parliamentary questions put to the commission and the council on the occasion of the forthcoming european roma summit share a number of common denominators. the first is the dissatisfaction with the current situation of the majority of roma in the european union. closely related to this theme is dissatisfaction with the use or level of use of pre-accession and structural funds for the purpose of roma integration into the rest of society and their re-socialization. another important point is the role of civil society organisations, including roma organisations, in engaging in problem solving. both points are important, but i would like to remind you that the way in which these problems are dealt with is also very important. let's be honest with ourselves after years of vague political declarations and inaction, many of us feel the urgent need to finally move to concrete action. i am a staunch defender of human rights and all my speeches in the european parliament over the last six years have always included this context. during these six years, i have also heard several discussions about discrimination against ethnic roma and the need to solve ethnic roma's problems. despite the rich debate, we have not been able to adopt any substantive instruments to address the issue, and i believe this is mainly due to the fact that we are formally focusing on the terminus technicus of discrimination and not addressing the real causes that cause the current situation in which our roma fellow citizens live. so if we really want to solve the roma problem, we must first of all focus on respecting international treaties of domestic law, but also international conventions. i am thinking in particular of the convention on the rights of the child, the provisions of which are violated in many roma families. i'll talk about the slovak republic, where they have free care and free education in primary and secondary schools. all this is provided and financed by the state. yet, neither of these policies respects the fundamental rights of the child. if we really want to talk objectively about solving roma problems, then we have to address the reasons and causes that lead to discrimination.
for the efd group. the second european union roma summit will certainly be a good opportunity for participants to exchange experiences on the results of many measures promoting the successful integration of the roma ethnic group into society. historians say that the roma arrived in europe between the fifth and ninth centuries c.e., and since then many european nations have sought to find the best way to live with the roma ethnic group. objectively, it must be admitted that even after more than a thousand years of searching for such a model, we have not found a way in europe to integrate roma ethnicity well into our society. i don't know if the cause of our ongoing problems is in ourselves or on the other side, but from my experience in my country, i know for sure that helping by giving is not the way to go. our government has taken from the taxes of all working citizens a considerable sum and given it to the roman citizens to enable them to lead a dignified life. she built and gave them new, modern apartments, the same ones that other citizens have to buy. it gave them access to work, health care, education on the same terms as all other citizens. it gives the unemployed the same support and social benefits as other citizens. but what is the result? modern apartments are destroyed, sanitation and other equipment dismantled and stolen. people throw the sewage and garbage from these apartments out of the windows and into the street. they don't want to go to work, even when the government offers it. the medical personnel who provide protection against infectious diseases will be expelled from the settlement. children are neglected, hungry, and often not in school. i am therefore convinced that if we really want to help the roma ethnic group, we must first of all try to teach roma children a civilized, cultural and decent way of life.
the poorest group of people in the european union are certainly the roma. i therefore support the use of all instruments to integrate roma into social and economic activities. i see the solution primarily in the education of children and youth. i also agree that both hidden and open discrimination against roma must be eliminated. but i'm also for talking very openly about how the rights of roma children are suppressed by their own parents. everyone has the right to a life of dignity. romani children, for the most part, do not have them. let us also talk at the next summit about the fact that in solving the roma problem, the roma themselves must be active first and foremost. not only in the education of their children, but also in their personal involvement in the process of improving their living conditions. and since i don't want to be a commissioner in the future, i want to say at this point that we should also talk about how roma support is being abused by roma themselves at the next summit.
by adopting three sets of directives governing railway traffic, the european commission has assumed joint responsibility for the organisation of rail transport in the european union. there is no doubt that the implementation of new railway rules in different national legislations can bring certain problems and costs. but it is certainly in our common interest to have a well-organised transport system and a well-functioning railway infrastructure as a viable alternative to road transport, which is undoubtedly a major burden on our environment. it is therefore certainly appropriate to speak openly about the problems that are holding back the faster development of rail transport. however, not only the rules but also the outlook can be of interest to us. european railroads from three sides of the world terminate at seaports, but eastward, rail lines continue to the pacific. the good connectivity of european railways on the eu's eastern border opens up new possibilities for european hauliers to transport goods. therefore, if the extension of the high-speed railway line from paris to vienna and bratislava and the simultaneous extension of the broad-gauge line from čierná nad tisou on the ukrainian border to bratislava and vienna can be implemented in the foreseeable future, then the section between bratislava and vienna will be connected by three different railway systems: conventional rail, high-speed rail and broad-gauge rail. connecting the two airports vienna and bratislava, the two river ports on the danube again vienna and bratislava, and the motorway crossings, a new major logistical and transport hub will be created in the heart of europe. it is undeniable that, in addition to maintaining and clarifying the rules, we still have considerable reserves in effectively increasing the dynamics of rail transport. it is only necessary to look at the investment possibilities and perhaps, by clarifying the rules, but also by investing in new projects, to promote rail transport in such a way that it is more profitable and better serves the citizens of europe.
the excellent reports by mr albertini and mr danjean contain many stimulating proposals for improving the efficiency of the main aspects and basic capabilities of the common foreign and security policy. i would like to stress that, at a time when the concept of the creation and future functioning of the european external action service is being developed, it is of the utmost importance that this service be built on the most rational basis possible from the outset. in other words, it is designed to serve the union's strictly objective needs and its desire to strengthen its position in the world. as we can see today, this is no simple and easy task. in the development of the concept of service, we are already seeing the often conflicting interests of the various european institutions, their individual components and, within them, sometimes groups and individuals coming together. to this we can add the national interests of the individual member states. in this situation, all the actors involved in this process must be responsible, generous and objective, able to rise above their own egos and to have in mind, above all, a common objective, namely the creation of a diplomatic service that will function as a homogeneous element serving exclusively the needs of the european union and its member states. there is a very important leadership role here. yours, baroness ashton. it would be a mistake for personal interests and the desire to impose one's own viewpoint at any cost to the detriment of others in order to demonstrate one's own importance and position to prevail over the need for a broader viewpoint. the result of these efforts will be a testimony to whether we are really seeking a stronger european union or simply a continuation of the show-off and competition for the strongest position in the structures of the european union.
i am concerned by the fact that previous conferences have not produced concrete results in the field of non-proliferation. there is a proliferation of such weapons and technology. the threat of nuclear technology falling into the hands of criminal and terrorist organizations is growing. the union should act in a unified manner in this area and address the issue as a global player, guaranteeing the strengthening of all three pillars of the npt and achieving the universal application and implementation of the rules and instruments of non-proliferation. i believe it is essential to make the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons one of the priorities of the european union and to begin a constructive dialogue with all the nuclear powers, not just the usa and russia. the number of states with nuclear weapons does not correspond to the five members of the un security council. the union should therefore, in the interests of overall security, make political and diplomatic efforts to ensure that countries such as israel, india, pakistan and north korea become signatories to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
the authors of the report, which was commissioned by the team of judge richard goldstone, are, in my opinion, internationally recognized experts whose acumen and objectivity we have no reason to doubt. the report is non-political and balanced and conditions should therefore be created for the implementation of its recommendations. i voted in favour of the report, although i do not agree with all of it, but it is good that this resolution has been adopted today in parliament, which hopefully will help to curb the excesses of the opposing parties and, in the long term, to bring about the final and much-desired peace in the middle east.
i believe that the european union must send a clear signal to belarus that it is ready to reassess its relations with it if belarus does not stop violating human rights and the principles of a democratic state and does not make effective reparations. i also express my outrage at the belarusian president's decree on internet control, which in many respects is a clear denial of freedom of speech and press. such a legal measure undermines freedom and democracy in belarus and deepens the mistrust of citizens and other countries, including the european union, in its state institutions and their representatives. in the context of the recent arrests of civil society and democratic opposition figures, it is also impossible to see a close temporal link between the entry into force of the decree in july this year and the upcoming presidential elections early next year.
i would like to commend the european union's efforts to establish a single regime for banking operations in the euro area. on the other hand, i see that the introduction of these new rules is being abused by banks to increase the fees for their clients. on the one hand, under pressure from the european union, our banks have adjusted the payments for cross-border sepa transfers within the euro area to be at the same level as national transfers, while at the same time increasing the fees for depositing and withdrawing money in exposures. it is clear to all of us that the cost of banks' cash manipulation of financial exposures has not changed in any way in the light of the new rules. and that is why we must say out loud that the abuse of the introduction of new rules in the euro area by banks to increase their profits at the expense of our citizens is outrageous. it should therefore be our duty to monitor closely the way in which the new regulations are applied in financial institutions.
i am concerned about the european commission's approach and conduct in the negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta). the negotiations are conducted in secret, behind closed doors, without proper information to the european parliament and the members who are ultimately to approve the document. i think we should change the procedures where the european commission expects the european parliament to take responsibility for any contracts that are presented to it. and it will not send a good signal to the european public, or to the world, if we have to return international contracts to the european commission repeatedly for review. such conduct does not reflect good communication between the most important institutions of the european union.
in writing. the european parliament, like the european economic and social committee, supports the objective pursued by the commission in presenting this initiative, which is to exempt micro-entities from administrative and accounting obligations, which are onerous and completely disproportionate to the needs and internal structures of micro-entities and the main users of financial information, in order to enable them to face the many structural challenges inherent in a complex society, through the full implementation of the european charter for small enterprises, in a process that is part of the lisbon strategy. i welcome the commission's simplification proposal, which aims to ensure that the regulatory framework helps to stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit and innovation of micro and small enterprises, so that they are more competitive and make the most of the potential of the internal market. however, micro-entities should remain subject to the obligation to keep records showing their commercial transactions and financial situation, provided that this is the minimum standard to which member states remain free to add other obligations. all in all, i think that with less bureaucracy we are helping small and mediumsized businesses, and i welcome that.
in writing. jacques delors once said that you do not fall in love with a single market or a single currency. i am in love with a union which takes seriously the real needs of families in the member states in the strictest respect for national and community competences. however, when i read the europe 2020 strategy and our parliamentary resolution, i see that our ambitions are limited to a timid flirtation with the liberal market economy. no recognition of the investment made by citizens in social cohesion and solidarity between generations. should we not change our view of industrial relations and the creation of added value for society as a whole? the commission proposes a target figure for the fight against poverty. this action necessarily revives the process of skimming which does not help the poorest. the absence of a poverty indicator scoreboard involuntarily demonstrates a lack of understanding of the poverty situation. poverty is more than just the lack of a job. and people who experience extreme poverty on a day-to-day basis are not just looking for jobs, but for effective access to existing rights. europe 2020 should respond to this with more enthusiasm and determination. i abstained.
the european union must make it a priority to combat human rights violations in all circumstances. cuban political prisoner orlando zapata died while on a hunger strike. another cuban prisoner is on hunger strike in protest for 25 prisoners who are in very poor health and are in danger of dying. the solution is not what the spanish government proposed when it offered asylum to a starving prisoner. i am surprised at the spanish government, which is currently holding the presidency of the european union, because its proposal does not address the situation. the immediate release of political prisoners is very difficult. i therefore ask commissioner piebalgs to ask the european commission to enter into negotiations with the cuban government to allow the international red cross to visit cuban prisoners. this would allow an objective assessment of their situation and help in further negotiations. this was also made possible for the red cross at guantanamo bay.
in my opinion, nuclear energy has not been given its rightful place in this report. solutions aimed at developing alternative bio-, wind- and solar energy are long-term and ultimately not guaranteed to be profitable. and we need to move quickly in our energy strategy, recalling the effects of last year's gas crisis and the threat of climate change. nuclear energy is the largest non-carbon energy source in the union and one third of our electricity needs are already met by electricity from this source. further safe development is simply unavoidable. it would be good if we all realized that.
according to state administration archives and available literature, between 1948 and 1989, the communist regime in slovakia convicted 71,168 people for alleged political crimes. there is no better way to honour the memory of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience than to take active action to promote freedom and democracy where it is considered an unattainable luxury. the european union's calls have so far met with no response. however, i am deeply concerned about the situation of political prisoners in cuba and therefore call on the council and the commission to take the effective measures necessary to release political prisoners and to support and ensure the work of human rights defenders. the people of cuba... the speaker was interrupted by the chairman.
the death penalty is a theme that will live on as long as there are beasts lurking in human society, murderers living with the knowledge that they can torture, abuse and murder people because a weak and impotent society cannot cope with their bestial actions. each of these creatures' victims had the same right to life as any of us, until they were crossed by such a monster, a criminal who, in his own depraved taste, had disposed of her human destiny without the right to mercy or defense. the korean constitutional court has ruled that the death penalty is not against the korean constitution. that was his assessment of the legal situation. but just because the political elites in europe have given up on such a path on our behalf does not mean that we have become better people or that our society is more humane. no, i did not. the hideous murder of decent people by brutal monsters in europe, as well as in korea, has not stopped. the only difference is that the european beasts have no fear of the death penalty. ladies and gentlemen, i respect our model based on the european convention on human rights, but i believe that before we impose it on the world around us, we should make sure that it is a better solution for decent people and that it also... the speaker was interrupted by the chairman.
very briefly, because most of the things have, of course, already been said. my personal view is that the situation we have been dealing with for several months in greece is not an isolated one and that this development seems to be leading to the fact that compliance with the stability pact, or non-compliance with the stability pact, requires a new approach. we have basically two options: either we will insist quite consistently that what is valid and what is in the treaties is respected, or we will understand that, like everything else, the stability pact must undergo certain developments and therefore certain changes, and we will prepare those changes in such a way and enforce them in such a way that we maintain growth and economic stability not only in the countries that are members of the euro zone directly, but also to prepare other member states of the european union that are not currently in the euro zone for accession without entering in a dramatic way, for example, in the use of the structural funds in these countries.
the citizens' initiative, as one of the powers of the citizens of the european union, is a major advance in democracy and the direct participation of the general public in political life. i very much appreciate and respect your approach, commissioner šefčovič, on this matter. and now, if i may, i will follow up on the questions raised by my colleague zita gurmai, because i too believe it is important to find answers to some of these questions. one of them is the place and the way of formalization, that is, the place where the signatures will be collected for the initiative, whether it will be in some government office or whether it will be somewhere on the street. and in this context, also after the fact, whether it will not conflict with other human rights, for example, the right to freedom of expression. the second question is the question of funding the whole process, and that is: who will be responsible for funding the citizens' initiatives? whether it is the european union, the member states or the citizens themselves, it is the initiative that will be taken. in the worst case, the principle of democracy would be undermined by the condition of the solvency of the population. lastly, it will be necessary for the commission to set a precise time limit within which such signatures will be collected, or indeed collected. this is particularly so in order to maintain the transparency and openness of the whole mechanism so that it is not potentially abused by interest groups operating across the european union. thank you very much, commissioner, and i really hope you get this right.
commissioner, thank you for the outline of the next steps. we have gone from the conceptual intentions and a few lines in the text of the lisbon treaty to the directive that the european union will follow. the citizens' initiative shows the people of the european union another means of european integration. citizens of nation states will be able to interpellate the european institutions. it should be noted, however, that while the right of citizens' initiative is a democratic instrument, it also opens the door to the federalisation of the union. i support the citizens' initiative, but it will be necessary to involve the competent authorities of the member states as much as possible. the protection of national institutions must be a priority and guaranteed. as the commissioner has said, this initiative must be balanced, and i add that it must in no way serve as a pretext to undermine the principle of subsidiarity. the framework for the application of this institution must be clearly defined in order to avoid unrealistic expectations on the part of some institutions, but above all on the part of the citizens of the european union.
on march 10th, we commemorated the 51st anniversary of the tibetan uprising, but also the second anniversary of the protests, both violently suppressed by the chinese armed forces. the main reason is china's unwillingness to engage with the legitimate representatives of the tibetan minority and its efforts to gradually assimilate and eliminate the culture and religion of tibet. i know firsthand what an ungodly and materialistic communist regime is capable of. one of the oldest cultures and religions, one that has survived for many thousands of years, is in serious danger. the world public must not be silenced. i am myself a member of the friends of tibet group in the european parliament. such groups already function in many parliaments around the world, such as the united states, germany, australia, india, the czech republic, and elsewhere. i am proud to announce that since march 9th, the friends of tibet group has been operating in the national council of the slovak republic. i believe that together we will contribute to the solution of the tibetan problem through the mediation of the negotiations of the high representative of china and his holiness the 14th dalai lama. this is a possible way of successfully ending and resolving also the problem of tibetan refugees, who mostly live in difficult conditions in the surrounding countries. i call on the commission to take this hard-hit group into account in its programmes.
after world war ii and the demarcation of borders, about 400 thousand slovaks remained in the territory of hungary as well as hungarians in the territory of slovakia. the hungarian minority in slovakia is still the same in number, but the situation in hungary is different. the slovak minority is decimated from the original 400 thousand slovaks to less than 33 thousand, that is, not even to one tenth of the original number. this is because the slovak government provides education in the mother tongue of the hungarian minority in more than 700 schools, and the hungarian government allows slovaks in hungary to do so in only one primary school. that is why the recent criticism of the neighbours about the education of the hungarian minority by president szijjártó, a man who calmly and passively watches his administration suffocate the national minorities in his country, cannot be evaluated other than as a disgusting, hypocritical and malicious provocation by the serbs, romanians and slovaks, who, unlike the hungarians, really care about the national minorities in their territory. the hungarian ombudsman for national minorities also warns that total assimilation of national minorities is still taking place in hungary.
the annual report on the 2009 euro area general government and public finances provides a detailed analysis of the european union's management during the global financial and economic crisis. the decline in economic performance in individual european union countries has led to a sharp increase in unemployment and an increase in the indebtedness of european countries. the degree of impact of the crisis on individual countries varied, and the measures taken by individual countries to defend themselves in response to the crisis also addressed each other. despite the efforts of the european union institutions to adopt coordinated and solidarity-based measures, in some countries populist governance without proper accountability for the management of public finances has proved fatal. this is also why the european union as a whole is having a harder time coping with the impact of the crisis compared to other major economic centres such as the united states, china, japan and india. the european economic environment as a whole has been shown to be diverse, heavily regulated, but very cumbersome compared to competing economies. in the coming period, therefore, in addition to efforts to consolidate the euro area's public finances, we must also seek to restructure and significantly simplify the rules of the internal environment. it is important to remember that only the productive sphere generates the means on which the whole society lives.
i thank the commissioner and the president of the ecb, as well as the rapporteurs, for their openness and high professional level in addressing this issue, which is so important to us. it is alarming that, despite all our efforts, unemployment and public debt are rising in almost all eu countries. my country, slovakia, is no exception to this. unemployment has risen to over 13%. slovakia was the last country to join the euro area on 1 january 2009, and this has had a positive impact on the economy, politics and society. the vast majority of the population still feels positively about the euro. we therefore consider it very important that the euro retains its strength and prestige and that parliament should support the efforts of the commission and the ecb to ensure that we do not fail in this area. this requires, in particular, a higher and more sustainable level of integration of the european economy. this is a strategic issue to which the council's committed approach is indispensable.
the adopted european parliament resolution on the second european roma summit opens a new way to address the problems of the roma population in the european union. individual attempts by individual countries to address roma inclusion in society have not proved to be successful. the reasons for this are varied. i therefore welcome the european union's efforts to step in to tackle the roma problem and to improve the integration of this community into society in an organised way.
european agricultural products meet the highest quality standards in the world, which should naturally lead to their increased competitiveness on international markets. european union citizens and discerning consumers must therefore be thoroughly informed of their benefits. in particular, it should be noted that european products not only meet strict hygiene, safety and veterinary standards, but also take into account the principles of sustainable development, climate change prevention and respect for biodiversity and animal welfare. i therefore fully support the introduction of a european quality logo for products originating only from the union. the logo officially recognises the efforts of european farmers and provides intellectual property protection at international level. i am convinced that this will help many rural areas that have no other option for development. in order to achieve high quality agri-food products through the union, the union must offer financial support for the modernisation of agricultural enterprises and the development of micro-enterprises, in particular in rural areas.
i voted against this report because, as in many other reports, in this own-initiative report europe is once again giving and imposing its concept of so-called reproductive and sexual rights on people in developing countries. it should be made clear at all times that this concept includes abortion as a method of family planning, as defined by the world health organization. human life is sacred from conception to natural death, so i could not support this report. on the other hand, there are some good ideas that can, of course, help people in developing countries, and so it can be said that, as hundreds of millions of people in developing countries are facing the effects of the rise in the price of basic products and food, they are facing existential problems. i find alarming the estimates of international financial institutions that the more than one billion people already alive will add about a hundred million more and that in sub-saharan africa child mortality will increase by 30,000 to 50,000.
i don't understand why reproductive health has been re-included in the report on the impact of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and development cooperation. reproductive health organizations promote abortion as a form of birth control. the industry is also financed at european level by taxes paid by citizens who reject abortion and who are committed to protecting life. for decades, international agencies have promoted birth control as a means of combating poverty, but developing countries still live in extreme poverty. i think the european union is spending money on birth control that doesn't solve poverty. i respect life and respect the principle of subsidiarity also in my relations with developing countries. that is why i voted against paragraph 7 and against the whole report.
mr president, mr secretary general, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your cooperation. i should now make a speech which i have prepared, if there were no exceptional circumstances. we all know that the weather conditions are not favourable for us all to meet without problems here in strasbourg. many of my fellow mps and officials have had to work harder and work harder. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, mr president, and the directorate-general under the leadership of mr klaus welle, for leaving nothing to chance in order to offer us the best possible working conditions. from the very beginning of the air transport problem, parliament has been involved in the reorganisation of transport to strasbourg, and i would like to thank you for this, also on behalf of those who cannot speak today. thank you very much.
the introduction of security charges introduced a new financial burden on the air transport market, which was immediately and efficiently passed on to passengers by the airport operator and the airlines. it is therefore necessary to look for mechanisms to protect passengers so that the non-transparent charging of some fictitious value hidden behind the name of the security charge does not become a well-hidden item for the creation of undue profits by cunning air transport entrepreneurs. the amount of these charges may only correspond to the costs demonstrably incurred in protecting the safety of passengers. it is therefore our duty, commissioner, to define clear and transparent rules. rules that will eliminate the current anarchy in this area and will no longer allow operators to abuse the mandatory passenger protection measure for undue profit in the future. the rules need to be defined, not set up additional institutions and authorities that will place additional costs on passengers, air operators and taxpayers. if we want to help europe become competitive, commissioner, we must forget about creating new offices. in fact, no added value is created in the offices which makes it possible to raise the standard of living of citizens. thank you for your attention.
for the efd group. the definition of trans-european transport networks is a fundamental step towards improving the transport services of europe's residential and manufacturing structures. while in the north, west and south of europe, railways and roads end at sea ports, in the east, roads and railways have enormous potential to continue eastward across asia to the shores of the pacific. asian countries china, japan, india are experiencing significant economic growth and are becoming important trading partners for european companies. therefore, in addition to building an internal european transport structure, it is also necessary to open up transport routes to the east. after all, the broad gauge railway from vladivostok goes all the way to the european union border in chernaya nad tisou. a project is being prepared to continue this line to vienna, to connect it to the danube, to the port and, of course, to the european network. i think that even such projects would be very important to support in the coming period. thank you. thank you.
after the earthquake in haiti, international humanitarian aid followed immediately. in addition to the american and canadian troops, i must also commend the swift and proper deployment of the slovak groups and the international order of the knights of malta. there were not many countries that helped quickly and effectively. today, after initial assessments with professor mudr. krčmeri, who is an expert and a doctor and an expert in humanitarian aid, we must state that a lot of human and financial resources have come from europe, but without the necessary equipment, machinery, food, water and diesel needed to intervene effectively in rescuing victims from under the fallen trees. even the experience of some rescue groups was inadequate. to be effective, a good will must also have a practical side. i therefore call on the competent national and european institutions to implement as soon as possible the joint humanitarian aid service as requested in the resolution on haiti. in addition, i consider it very important to promote training in humanitarian aid and to have the necessary material and equipment ready in case of natural disasters.
i welcome the strengthening of relations between the european union and latin america, which is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency, as it is mutually beneficial and can bring benefits to the member states of the european union and the countries of latin america. latin america has a huge human potential, with more than 600 million people, but also its natural wealth and 10% of the world's gross domestic product. the european union, as the main provider of development aid, the main investor and the second most important trading partner in latin america, should systematically consolidate its position in the region. fully functioning regional cooperation based on shared values such as democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights will require a targeted improvement of the current mechanisms of bi-regional partnership. this is the approach i will take at the forthcoming eurolat assembly plenary in seville, spain, in may.
since 1959, canada has been one of the european union's closest and most stable partners. i am very pleased that the current right-wing government has managed to improve the economic situation in canada, which was not possible during previous elections in this country. the strengthening of the economic situation and the strengthening of the canadian dollar, which lead to an increase in the welfare of canadian citizens, also sends a positive signal abroad and creates favourable conditions for the development of not only political but also economic cooperation. i am confident that the eu-canada summit in brussels will bring concrete progress in the negotiations on a comprehensive economic partnership agreement. canada is the 11th strongest trading partner with the european union, accounting for up to 1.7% of the union's total foreign trade, and the european union is the second largest investor in canada and canada is the fourth largest investor in the eu. in 2008, the total volume of goods was already around eur 50 billion and eur 20,8 billion in services. the liberalisation of trade in goods and services between the eu and canada and the expansion of market access will allow bilateral trade to be revitalized and deepened, which will certainly be a significant benefit to both the european union and canadian economies.
first of all, i want to commend the work of mr kirilov, the rapporteur. it is very good that, in order to respond to the economic crisis, the european institutions have agreed to speed up the financing process for regional development projects and also to simplify the rules governing the use of the structural funds. in addition, the deadlines for using the 2007 approved euro funds are to be extended to give member states more time to use them. in slovakia, we have a saying: who gives quickly, gives twice. the member states most affected by the economic crisis are awaiting the regulation we are discussing today. the first proposal was presented by the commission in july last year. we won't decide until may. the whole legislative process has taken nine months to date. it may be time to start considering a simplified and shortened legislative process in specifically identified cases. the crisis, unemployment, poverty, the deepening regional disparities are all cases where action needs to be taken more quickly, more flexibly. we will find it difficult to explain to the unemployed that it takes us more than three quarters of a year to pass legislation to help them now and when they need it.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. i would like to recall that, according to article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the promotion of equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union, which must be respected in all european union activities and therefore be traceable in the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european union. the essential condition for this is the availability of statistical data on the use of the budget in an appropriate breakdown. despite all efforts, it is regrettable that data are still not available to allow the gendered breakdown of budgetary imbalances to be traced. this is particularly true in areas that are specifically designed to support the eradication of discrimination, such as the european social fund. i would like to mention one specific issue: the delay in setting up the european institute for gender equality. this institute was supposed to start in 2008, but we can expect the official opening of the institute in june this year. obviously, this raises various problems in the budget process as well. given that a number of multiannual programmes are due for mid-term evaluation in 2010, i would like to reiterate my call on the commission to develop a monitoring and evaluation system which will make it possible to monitor the implementation of the principle of equity in the various budget lines and the impact of the increase in budget lines in terms of the development of unjustified disparities.
in february, we refused to ratify the agreement on the processing and transmission of data contained in financial reports for the purposes of the united states treasury department's terrorist tracking program. the reasons for the refusal were clearly stated, namely: breach of the fundamental principles of data protection law by a large number of citizens and entities from the european union (up to 90 million data per month), lack of safeguards to protect citizens of the european union from the misuse of their data provided under this agreement in the united states as well as in third countries, and lack of genuine reciprocity, where the other party did not commit to providing the same quality and the same scope of information to the european union. many of these shortcomings can be remedied in the new agreement, but the very principle of a comprehensive transfer of all data from the european union to the united states, where, under the pretext of looking for links to terrorism, the united states processes, evaluates and archives all records of european union financial operations without any restrictions, is untenable. this must be changed. the processing of financial operations by european banks can only take place under european rules and on european soil. we only give our friends in the united states what is really terrorism-related.
for the efd group. representatives of the european union institutions often and gladly declare publicly that they place great emphasis on protecting the health of their citizens, nature and the environment. it is therefore striking that european regulations are suspiciously inconsistent when it comes to the use of the highly toxic chemical cyanide in the extraction of precious metals. it is common knowledge in the scientific community that cyanides are among the most toxic chemicals. they enter the body by inhalation through intact skin or after use. at sufficient concentrations, death occurs within seconds to minutes. the arguments of mining companies that they will ensure that the conditions for gold mining are such that there will be no more health risks or environmental damage have so far proved futile. sometimes the human factor failed, sometimes nature took us by surprise. this is evidenced by the dozens of serious accidents around the world that have resulted in widespread devastation to nature, health, and lives. to name just a few of the recent years: summitville, colorado; carson hill, california; brewer, south carolina; harmony, south africa; omai, guyana; gold quarry, nevada; zortman-landusky, montana; kumtor, kyrgyzstan; homestake, south dakota; placer, philippines; baia mare, romania; and tolukuma, papua new guinea. the following are just a few of the many cities that have been named in recent years. here, everywhere, the population and nature have paid dearly for the greed of modern gold miners, made possible by the indifference of the competent authorities. commission, it is time to show the citizens of the european union what you really care about, whether it is the environment, the health and lives of our citizens or the profits of mining companies.
first of all, i would like to thank the initiators of this very important issue, mr áder and mr tőkés. i would like to give my full support to the motion for a resolution which is being prepared on a general ban on cyanide mining technologies throughout the european union. anyone who has experienced and seen the consequences of the ecological disaster caused by the failure of technology in baia mare and the subsequent release of toxic cyanide solutions into watercourses with far-reaching effects on the living fauna of the tisza river in hungary, but also the danube in bulgaria, must do everything to ensure that something like this can never happen again in the european union. my country, slovakia, was deeply affected by the disaster at that time, because it took place in close proximity to our borders. in addition, in slovakia, some old precious metal mines are also threatened with reopening and, given their low concentration, the use of cyanide technology is being considered. it would be absolutely wrong and incorrect to unknowingly classify this process as a bilateral matter between two member states of the european union. i hope that the commission's position will be a little more decisive than the commissioner has presented it here. the adoption of the resolution must be about the general and comprehensive protection of european values in the field of our ecological and environmental policy.
cyanide extraction methods are associated with a high risk of ecological damage and thus a threat to human life, health and the environment. the cyanide leaching of precious metals, gold, is prohibited in several member states, but the danger of a natural disaster associated with contamination of surface waters knows no national boundaries. the infamous accident in baia mare (that's romania, here you have to correct my colleague posselt, it didn't come from czechoslovakia, but it came from romania and it contaminated hungary and slovakia and then czechoslovakia) caused incalculable damage up to more than 1000 km from the place of origin. my country was among the countries affected. nevertheless, in many countries of the european union, such methods can still be used legally. i am convinced that in the interests of protecting human health and the environment, and given that cyanide extraction methods can involve several states in accidents, it is necessary and necessary to establish uniform legislation at european level.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the full use of information and telecommunications technologies is a prerequisite for a more competitive europe and sustainable growth. the european union should guarantee the development and application of these technologies and enable all eu citizens to participate in the new digital society through high-quality, affordable high-speed internet connections. unfortunately, telecommunications markets in many member states continue to be insufficiently open to competition, and consumers and households are therefore discouraged by high prices and lack of digital skills. i therefore consider it essential to deepen the integration and overall liberalisation of the single market and to remove obstacles to the provision of crossborder telecommunications services. at the same time, i support the creation of a better legal framework for the new digital space, which will guarantee the protection of citizens' fundamental rights and intellectual property, as well as prevent cybercrime and the dissemination of child pornography and other crimes on the internet.
with all due respect to the material presented, it is impossible to ignore their similarity to the five-year plans that were supposed to bring the eastern bloc to its alleged prosperity. even in those, it was acknowledged at the outset that the previous strategy had not been successful for various reasons. then bold goals were set and the people began to be convinced that this time things would really get better. it wasn't any better. strategies were being reversed and the economy was falling apart. these strategies also lacked respect for the basic rules of economic life. europe is losing its breath today, despite having a higher percentage of educated people than the more successful china or india. why would you do that? for every new problem, it responds in the same way as the european council or the commission, by creating another new institution or another office. most educated europeans are then lost in the bowels of all sorts of bureaucracies, and these millions of educated people who could just as well be working creatively in other areas, for example on innovation and development for the production sphere, are just in the offices turning paper and draining common resources. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be truly more successful, we must first of all simplify the rules of coexistence and business and reduce the administrative burden. we need to create more space for people to be independent, entrepreneurial and creative, and redirect the money we spend on administration to development, innovation and the development of the productive sphere.
it is a pity that the president of the commission is not here, although he certainly has important tasks, but i think that europe 2020 is the most important strategic material, and i do not know what could be more important for the president at the moment. but it is clear from the debate that has taken place here across the political spectrum that this material has not generated much enthusiasm in the european parliament. it is fair to say that the situation in europe in planning this material is very complicated and that this material was produced against the backdrop of one of the worst economic crises that european generations can remember. and so, in my view, one of the most important things that the strategy should address is to protect the people who are the most economically vulnerable, who lived in difficult conditions before the crisis, who live in them now, and who did not cause this crisis. i therefore think, and this is a specific suggestion to this material, that it would be good if we were to mainstream the guidelines which deal with the specific area of poverty and social exclusion, and if they were not second-class guidelines, if they did not deal with the employment area only, but were cross-cutting and concerned all those important areas.
although all the member states of the european union are parties to the convention, the accession of the european union as a whole will not only represent a new dimension in the protection of human rights in the european union, but i would like to stress that accession will also be a legal and political signal for strengthening relations between the european union and europe. i would also like to support the idea that, in addition to the accession of the european union to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the adoption of legislation covering the field of social rights should also be seriously considered at european level for example, the adoption of a revised european social charter at pan-european level, i.e. by the union as a whole, would be a welcome step. the union's accession to the convention also opened the door to the question of the union's political representation in the council of europe bodies. it is also said that the european parliament should be active in this process. i agree with this line in principle, but i am afraid that this process, commissioner, including its individual components, will not be easy at all. and although i share your enthusiasm at the moment - and of course i also thank the council for its very good activity - we must be prepared for the fact that this process will be very complicated and that we still have a lot of work to do in this direction.
electric cars are considered one of the solutions to meet strict environmental standards because they produce no emissions. several automobile companies in europe and asia have already completed the development of these vehicles and are ready to put them on the road. however, their wider expansion is hampered by the lack of standardisation to define the parameters of universal charging stations, their hardware and software, so that vehicles coming to europe from different manufacturers can be charged quickly and efficiently on the densest possible network of such stations. but while the european commission is investigating, considering, preparing, our japanese friends are working. in tokyo, they have set up an association of electric car manufacturers, which is already developing common standards for these vehicles and is also offering its cooperation to european manufacturers. in the interest of opening up the space for electric cars as soon as possible, i would therefore recommend that the commission liaise with japanese producers as soon as possible and actively contribute to the introduction of global standards for the use of electric cars.
i would like to begin by saying that i understand the effort to ensure that consumers have a free choice in the choice of the car service they wish to use. on the other hand, i see objective limits to absolute freedom in this area. just as no one would think of sending a european airbus to a tupolev workshop for service, the owner of any car brand is dependent on the technology and work practices of the manufacturer of his car to do the work. where the car manufacturer provides a warranty to the customer for his product, he shall have the right to require the customer to carry out the service maintenance in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the customer. if a consumer turns to a service provider whose staff does not have the necessary knowledge and skills to carry out the maintenance of the vehicle, he risks the repair not being carried out properly and even damaging the car. therefore, if we want to protect the consumer, we cannot expect all car repairers to be equally capable of providing their services for any brand. as a customer, i would prefer a well-equipped service station with well-trained workers for a particular brand. specialization and a balanced relationship with the producer is the best way forward for the customer as well.
i think it is right that the european commission and the european parliament are concerned with the objectification of the cost of safety and security for passengers in air transport. i must say, however, that i consider the current establishment of offices to carry out such controls to be pointless and wrong. at a time when europe needs money to help greece, at a time when europe needs money to develop the economy, the creation of additional offices that do practically nothing but supervise is gambling with the money of the citizens of the european union, and i hope that this path does not lead to success.
i would like to see a ban on cyanide mining across the european union. i would like to see in the future that we can eliminate these technologies permanently, so that we can avoid any more serious natural disasters, where various toxic substances are introduced into our water sources. this was the case in hungary, where the tisza river's wildlife was almost completely wiped out 10 years ago. slovakia is also involved in this case, as the accident happened along the border and they want to open mines in the near future where they can also mine gold with this technology. these and other similar issues are not a matter for two eu countries to debate, but are in our common interest to make our environmental policy more sustainable. that's why i voted yes, and that's why i want to join the supporters of the measure.
the report on cancer prevention measures speaks of the importance of prevention in the fight against this disease. we know that if this disease is detected early, there is a better chance of successful treatment. the occurrence of some cancers can be predicted by genetic predispositions, lifestyle choices, and the like. so i think that more extensive screening can be an effective and rapid first step to preventing many deaths. another important step could be to transfer and extend successful treatment methods to all countries of the european union, including to workplaces with less experience in cancer treatment, in order to better ensure effective treatment. in any event, mr peterle's work is to be commended in the hope that the european union will take more extensive action to combat this disease.
my fellow members of parliament! we have seen an explosion in computing, information and communication technologies in recent years. such high-level developments and achievements in ict have contributed greatly to the development of other sectors that were previously stagnant, such as mechatronics, nanotechnology, measurement and control technology. the commission's initiative to use ict to achieve the eu 2020 targets is therefore to be commended. i welcome the fact that we have adopted this programme and i am glad that i was able to vote for it. it is very important that we meet our 2020 targets for reducing carbon emissions and increasing energy efficiency. the ict sector can be of strategic importance for the european union's energy saving and for the competitiveness of european industry. to achieve this, however, it is necessary to encourage the rapid standardisation of measuring equipment, the launch of pilot projects and the adoption of a package of measures to reduce consumption and better manage the supply of production and services.
the rapporteur. - mr president, on 22 march the secretariat of the committee on employment replied to my request for this report to be included in the may plenary session, stating that since a month had not elapsed between 28 april, when the commission voted on this report, and the current plenary session, i.e. the 'cool-off' period, this report could not be included in the may plenary session. on the other hand, without anyone having asked, the council of presidents - presumably on the proposal of the socialist group - decided to be in this plenary, regardless of whether a month had passed or not, so that the situation was that the political groups simply did not have time to formulate their position on this report and there was no time to discuss this report. that is why i ask that we postpone it until the june plenary.
the protection of persons belonging to national minorities is a legitimately important part of international development and relations between states. we are also discussing it here in the european parliament, emphasising european values and the obligations of governments to uphold them. i would like to point out in this context the political sensitivity of this issue, because it is precisely in this context that there are wide possibilities for abuse, especially when governments act unilaterally in promoting these issues without consulting those affected. i find it undesirable and unacceptable that these issues are pushed forward insensitively with the intention of influencing the internal political situation of another country, sometimes even before elections, because that is called arrogance in normal speech. if some of you didn't understand, i was talking about the current problems in slovak-hungarian relations.
for the ppe group. first of all, i would like to thank our colleague astrid lulling for the long and systematic work she has put into amending this directive. i would like to highlight three points which i consider important in relation to the position presented. the protection of self-employed women mothers and the improvement of the situation of self-employed spouses are insufficient in the european union today. i hope that the text adopted will apply to all sectors and not just agriculture. creating favourable conditions for the development of family businesses means supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. it creates room for private initiative and new jobs. part of such an environment is the social protection of those who have decided to help their spouse in business. their work is as much a contribution to the economy as that of any other employee. they therefore have the same right to social protection as employees. however, the principle of subsidiarity must be strictly respected in the search for appropriate mechanisms for such protection. the choice of instruments must remain in the hands of the member states. and finally, a child needs its mother most in the first months of its life, whether it is born in france, germany or slovakia. i believe that the new maternity leave directive which is being prepared will soon extend maternity leave to 18 weeks for all working women without distinction.
for the efd group. first of all, i am pleased that the european union has discovered the potential for significant energy savings in the operation of buildings. relatively rapid and efficient energy savings can be achieved by improving the thermal insulation capabilities of building envelopes, including by additional insulation of older buildings. however, heat leakage from heating buildings is not the only waste of energy in buildings. in terms of energy consumption, heating water for personal hygiene or indoor air conditioning is also an important item in civilized societies. but in these areas, the path to energy savings will be a little bit more difficult, more complicated. it will be a way to increase the efficiency of rather complicated sophisticated systems that provide regulation and exchange of energy between different media in the building itself. since most buildings are unique in terms of their unification, the internal energy regime of each building must also be more or less individual, designed and implemented appropriately for a particular workplace or household. therefore, a significant increase in the complexity and design requirements must be part of our objectives in order to properly scale up smart energy solutions for the building. and so here too we must look for incentives for the human potential working in this area, commissioner, to increase their education. i personally would be very pleased if the objectives of this directive were well met. but i think in some areas it's going to be challenging.
the energy savings of buildings are very important, but the question of the energy savings of buildings is also important. this is a subject that we have to deal with because the energy crisis is developing in europe. the european union has committed itself to reducing its energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to using 20% of its energy from renewable sources. emellett oda kell figyelni is energy efficiency issues, főleg az építőiparban, as the építőiparban sector is one of the largest energy consumers (40%) and one of the largest carbon dioxide emitters. this is particularly important in central european countries where there is a past system of heritage and early-warning of the lack of buildings due to wasteful use of the available energy. the modernisation of the buildings is particularly important for the city. and the switchgear, the modern heat seals and the energy-saving devices. in europe, the use of energy-saving buildings is increasing, thanks to the popularity of electricity and state aid. however, there is no system in central europe that is more conducive to stimulating investment in passive house-building, even as increasing dependence on gas is reduced. that's why i'm asking for your help, and that's why i voted for you.
public procurement appears to be an effective way of procuring goods and services for the public sector, allowing for the successful achievement of reasonable prices and reducing suspicions of corruption. in the future, however, it would be good to work on simplifying the mechanisms of the public procurement process and also to strive to shorten the decision-making time limits. i think that is a direction that we should support in principle. however, experience has shown that publishing contracts on the internet is also a good solution, which gives us the opportunity to make these contracts known to the general public and to convince them of the benefits of the contracts concluded. this experience is particularly evident in local authorities, where the management of municipal assets was very often closely monitored by citizens, and when all contracts were published on the internet, people were more satisfied and trusted local authorities.
the reporter. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has made many procedures more direct and transparent. powers are more clearly defined. the european parliament has more powers and the european union has strengthened its external and internal engagement. for the first time in the history of democracy, citizens of more than one country have the right to influence events transnationally. it is precisely because of europe's size and diversity that we must ensure that all citizens, including those with few resources and who do not belong to large established organisations, have access to all democratic means. the use of these democratic means must not be linked to the existence of large financial resources. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has a certain financial impact on some european institutions. during the 2010 budgetary procedure, it was agreed that the reserve available under heading 5 would be used as a priority to finance the additional costs directly resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. therefore, today, after the adoption of the original 2010 budget, we are addressing the corresponding additional expenditure by way of an amending budget. after submitting the request for additional resources, we did everything to find reserves and reallocate existing resources as much as possible. the treaty of lisbon has direct or indirect effects on all the european parliament's departments. the european parliament's amending budget, which we are debating today, will provide additional financial and human resources to enable parliament to fulfil its new role of co-decision on an equal footing with the council. the net financial impact of the european parliament's amending budget is lower than originally reflected in the budgetary appropriations. in conciliation proceedings with the presidency of the european parliament, we managed to find eur 4 million. the further reduction in the need for resources is due to the time-frame aspect, whereby we adopt the budget a month later than originally expected. most businesses and institutions, not only in europe but around the world, are taking advantage of the global economic crisis to improve their efficiency and competitiveness. it is a challenge for us, the european parliament, as well as for the other european institutions. further savings and greater efficiency, not just for this year, are now in the hands of the secretary-general of the european parliament. the rigorous functional audit in the inlo directorate-general and in the security service, which we agreed upon when the budget was adopted in december, can bring significant and sustainable savings for future budget periods.
the reporter. - i would like to thank all those who have spoken. i am pleased that you all want to do your legislative work as well as possible and use resources as efficiently as possible. each of us has our own opinion on where and how we could improve things. this is also reflected in today's discussion. i'd like to tell mr. butthole there's a way to achieve an objective savings. a path that even members of your political group were opposed to a year ago. i've been the head of the regional government in my country since january. when i took office, my first step was to have an independent outside view of all the processes in my institution. this audit eliminates duplication and reduces administrative costs by more than 15%. if we too want to explore reserves as widely as possible and reorganise existing resources, the best solution is an objective and independent external view. those who have dared to do so have made the best use of resources and have been able to reduce their administrative costs significantly. in the coming days, we will debate and vote on the amending budget of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions for 2010. these institutions are clearly expanding their activities, have greater powers and a higher workload. i would also like to ask the council to be able to conclude these budgets as soon as possible so that the two institutions can exercise their responsibilities responsibly and effectively in the new or extended areas brought about by the treaty of lisbon.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr tavares for his work on refugee policy, and i would also like to express my regret at this point that less than half of the member states of the european union have official resettlement programmes for refugees from third countries. moreover, as has been pointed out many times here, these programmes are not sufficiently coordinated and, due to the low level of coordination and cooperation between the member states of the union, the costs associated with resettlement are also high, which of course can make the idea unattractive. but i am convinced that with enough political will, we europeans will be able to create an effective, fair and solidarity-based resettlement programme. to this end, it will be necessary to establish not only the programme itself but also a specific fund for the resettlement of refugees in the union. the package would finance the creation of national resettlement programmes where they do not yet exist, as well as coordination activities at central level. in my view, the european asylum support office is the ideal coordinator.
i would like to talk about the schengen information system. we know that this system has been in the works for quite some time, has cost a lot of money, is increasingly expensive to implement, and the test results are not known. it would probably be better to do an audit of the work done on this system so far, to consider whether this system is viable, whether we can complete the work on this system so that it is useful for europe, and then decide what to do next. as regards the resettlement programme, i agree that legislative standards should be drawn up to limit illegal migration to the european union and to create conditions for legitimate resettlement. but perhaps we should draw on the experience of our colleagues from developing countries, who say that not all migration, not all journeys by countries to the european union are of a nature to limit the security of these people, but are for economic reasons.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, several amendments were put to the vote in the committee to draw attention to the importance of churches and religious communities in addressing the refugee problem. all these amendments were rejected. when liberal and left-wing politicians claim that the day-to-day work with refugees is adequately provided by ngos and funds from the state budget, it is a sign of their short-sighted cynicism and hypocrisy. in real life, it's the opposite. is it not true that governments are often criticized for the inhumane conditions in refugee camps? would it not be better to denounce openly the hypocrisy of countries such as germany, spain, france, italy, or malta? governments are failing to welcome and care for refugees. we're sending them back because the poverty of the poorest is repugnant to the rich europe. in the name of political correctness, we ignore that in the most destitute of the reception camps, where the politically correct ngos have given up their fight, only a quiet catholic nun is working with enthusiasm. thanks to the order of malta, the jesuit refugee service, and many christian organizations, governments are recognizing their commitment to addressing the plight of refugees. christian organizations are a thorn in our conscience. for this, they deserve our thanks even though their funding from the eu budget is very limited and they cannot even be mentioned in an own-initiative report on the subject.
the reporter. - i am very pleased to have this unique opportunity today to stand before you and speak about the progress we have made in the parliamentary discussions, but also in the subsequent trilogue on this very important topic of organ donation and transplantation. not only as the lead rapporteur, but also as a doctor, i personally consider this legislative proposal to be extremely important. i strongly believe that this new directive takes substantial account of the greatest challenge we currently face in the process of donation and transplantation, which is the shortage of organs for patients waiting for them. in the context of the highest possible protection of the health of the citizens of the european union, our aim is to ensure the high quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation. the draft report was voted on 16 march in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, where it was unanimously adopted, and in the context of the recommendations of the rapporteur. we then had three intensive interinstitutional trilogues between parliament, the commission and the council, led by the spanish presidency. let me now highlight in particular the following points that were key to our discussion. first, the principles that govern organ donation. voluntary and unpaid donation is a fundamental principle that cannot be called into question under any circumstances. the altruistic nature of the donation must be preserved to avoid any commercialisation or financial motivation of the donor. at the same time, the greatest possible protection of the living donor must be ensured. i would like to mention here the lively debate that has been sparked by the donation of organs by living donors. on the one hand, this form is complementary to the organs we get from dead donors, but on the other hand, it's an alternative with remarkable potential. of course, it is not our intention to impede progress in this area, but we must ensure that organ donation from a living donor who is not genetically or familially related to the recipient is in all cases voluntary and free of charge. the principle of gratuity does not apply to cases of so-called compensation, where a living donor may receive an allowance in respect of the expenses connected with the donation. however, member states must define precisely the conditions under which this contribution can be granted, in order to avoid any financial incentive or profit for the potential donor. other important issues in the context of the principles are allocation criteria ensuring that organs are not removed from a person before the donor's fully informed consent is legally recognised as dead. we have succeeded in defending these in the introductory part. the so-called recitales. the second principle is traceability, protection of personal data and credibility. member states shall ensure that all organs harvested, allocated and transplanted on their territory can be traced from donor to recipient and vice versa. this concept has replaced the original proposal of anonymity, which is however contrary to the security of this process. personal data must remain confidential. thirdly, we have a framework for quality and safety. we have clearly agreed that member states should establish a national framework to organise all stages of the process, from donation to transplantation. states will subsequently inform the commission of the activities and results undertaken in the context of the implementation of this regulation within three years of its entry into force. here we expect significant progress, especially in countries where the system is not sufficiently developed and which, by adopting appropriate systemic measures, can significantly increase the number of transplants. i want to particularly emphasize the role of the transplant coordinator or the transplant coordination team, whose importance is undeniable. it has been proven in many operational countries. finally, i would like to mention criteria such as the organisation and implementation of the selection, the assignment of tasks to the competent authorities, the involvement of third countries, the exchange of bodies with third countries and the security of the process. we have adopted so-called delegated acts under the provisions of the treaty of lisbon (and i will finish here). in conclusion, i would like to stress that raising public awareness is of the utmost importance and i therefore call on the commission to encourage member states through specific programmes to promote organ donation. let me thank all those who contributed to the successful conduct of the negotiations and especially to the efficient, constructive approach of the spanish presidency.
the reporter. − thank you for your contributions to this debate and i express the deep conviction, which i think we all shared together during the negotiations, that this directive goes beyond political controversy because it is about people, it is about patients and it is in favour of saving lives. i believe that more organs and more successfully treated patients will help bring more people back to full life, to their families, to their new job or their job again, and change their quality of life in a decisive way. openness, accessibility, safety, quality, availability, altruism, more living donors, gratuitousness and voluntariness - these are all principles that we have taken into account in this directive all together. i believe that this directive will provide more bodies also through enhanced cooperation and exchange between countries across borders and that this will bring european member states together again in a decisive way. i believe that through this directive, we will all bring something that we set out to do at the beginning, more consensus, more love, more cooperation and, most importantly, more happy patients.
as stated above, the union's accession to the convention is primarily a symbolic gesture. nevertheless, i believe that it does strengthen the integration process and is a further step towards the political unification of the european union. beyond symbolism, this legal act has practical significance in the european union's human rights policy. it also removes the double standard in formal matters. the union has not been legally bound to respect human rights. but from now on, its laws will be subject to external judicial review to ensure that they comply with the convention. the european union's accession to the convention will also have the practical benefit of guaranteeing protection not only to citizens of the european union and other persons within the territory of the union, but also to all individuals falling within the union's field of application outside its territory. i personally welcome the idea that the union will aim to fully respect the clauses of the convention in all its external relations and activities. it is important that the report presented draws attention to the possible technical and administrative complications of the whole process and suggests that it be as uncomplicated as possible. the european union, as a non-state member acceding to the convention, which was designed for states, should take care not to claim unnecessary changes to the convention and its judicial system. the european court of human rights is already quite busy. furthermore, unnecessary complications could jeopardise the legitimacy and popularity of the process of accession of the european union to the convention.
there are a number of areas in the stockholm programme action plan that i would like to talk about, and if we are to move on, i will name those areas of concern. i certainly see the problematic area as the european union's common asylum system, which we have already discussed at least several times in this report, where on the one hand the commission is talking about the need to successfully integrate legal migrants/immigrants into the common system, but on the other hand the action plan is very unambitious in this regard. it also looks like we won't see a proposal for a uniform asylum procedure, and therefore mutual recognition of the rights of refugees among the member states of the european union, until 2014. in particular, your plans to limit the flow of immigrants, or migrants, such as seasonal workers. so, to make a long story short, we have a progressive and fair common asylum system in the background, and the plan specifies rather repressive measures. i'd like to touch on at least two other areas. firstly, it is a sad fact that, even in the commission's own words, progress on the mutual recognition of registered same-sex partnerships within the european union is not a priority and i am truly sorry that this issue has been sidelined. the last area i would like to mention is corporate law. the stockholm action plan often mentions citizens, their rights, but the plan very clearly emphasises the freedom of business without sufficient regulations, which is surprising to say the least, especially in the context of the current financial and economic crisis.
european centralisation is sometimes accompanied by fanfare, as we saw with the adoption of the lisbon treaty. but other times, he comes in unobtrusively. the introduction of the various eu support funds, which often distort the market environment, has forced the introduction of compulsory state aid notification. subsequently, the need for an exemption from this obligation in the case of social housing became apparent. and suddenly there's a european definition of the world. if we define responsibilities from above and then let those below do them, that's not subsidiarity. responsibility for social housing lies entirely with the national, regional and local authorities. let us not question the ability of national communities and local communities to solve their own problems. because they know these problems best. they know their options for dealing with them.
the closure of airspace following the april eruption of the icelandic volcano confirmed that air traffic is very sensitive to various restrictions of flight conditions. not only clouds of volcanic dust but also heavy snow, windstorms, thick fog, and other climatic anomalies cause major problems for airlines to operate scheduled flights. therefore, the responsible airlines conclude various insurance contracts with insurance institutions to cover their financial losses due to unforeseen emergency situations. the costs of this airline insurance are naturally included in the price of the ticket and the passengers also pay in the price of the ticket for the airline to provide them with the necessary service and alternative transport solution in the event of an emergency. i would stress once again, and i repeat, mr commissioner, that passengers pay airline fares so that in the event of an emergency they can deal with the problem promptly and then claim appropriate compensation from the insurance companies. a regular citizen of the european union who does not directly use air transport services has nothing to do with this business. therefore, it is absolutely inappropriate to pass on such air transport losses to the member states of the european union. it is right, therefore, that wise governments refuse to comply with these absurd demands. if anyone is to compensate airlines for the restrictions caused by extreme weather events, it is their insurance companies that are obliged to provide contractual performance to the extent agreed in their insurance contracts. after all, that's how it works for all of our citizens in the european union, when their house burns down, for example, or a glacier destroys their roof, they only get compensation from their insurance company, if they're insured at all. and no airline or european union government is going to put up a fence for them to get a new home or better housing. so why should they be composed of compensating some lost profit to the airlines? that would be absurd! i am therefore convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that in a healthy business environment, this title does not justify any, indeed any, support for airlines by governments and therefore by the citizens of the european union.
the europe 2020 strategy is a very important strategy, especially today, in the time of the deepening financial and economic crisis. this crisis has brought to the surface fundamental issues and negative developments which, if not incorporated into our strategy, could jeopardise the success of our economic policy. the euro must not be allowed to lose its prestige, and everything must be done to ensure the sustainability of the monetary union. i represent a country that was the last to join the euro area and whose citizens consider the introduction of the euro to be a success story, and slovakia is therefore contributing to the defence of the euro by all means. we must be aware that the monetary crisis can have serious political consequences: it can strengthen euroscepticism and destabilise countries preparing for the euro. countries that have not yet adopted the single currency should be helped and encouraged. when building the eu 2020 strategy, sustainable development policy should be given a strong role. while the energy diversification solution for central europe is underway, it is also necessary to ensure a greater use of alternative energy to mitigate climate change. however, it should also be recognised that the capacity of current alternative energy sources is limited. in the long term, nuclear energy is the energy source that can provide sufficient energy with the lowest carbon emissions, and therefore the associated issue of safe fuel storage and operation must be given great weight. it is also essential to encourage further research into modern energy technologies, such as fusion reactor innovation. there are many important issues that we want to build into our strategy, and the challenge is to better coordinate and integrate the different areas. this is the only way to achieve the vital economic union which is essential to monetary union.
responsible budgetary policy in all the countries of the european union is only the first step towards remedying the current situation. the next important step, and certainly the more difficult one to implement, should be to try to make a deliberate change in the work structure of our population. a large proportion of european union citizens find employment in non-productive sectors, mainly public administration, and the productive sphere is not enough to support the many bureaucrats who only complicate their lives by inventing new regulations and restrictions. look, commissioner, at the asian one. they don't have a high percentage of educated people or the number of universities we have. however, they have a small public administration and a simple business environment that allows them to develop the natural competitiveness that is inherent in many people. a simple, transparent business environment, less bureaucracy, more space for the autonomy, entrepreneurship and creativity of our citizens, that is the best way out of today's problems.
the reporter. - today is a great day, a day for european citizens, for european patients. by adopting this directive on the donation and transplantation of human organs, we will enable the healing and quality of life in the families and workplaces of thousands of people who are eagerly awaiting an organ. i thank all the political groups who intend to support my directive. ladies and gentlemen, this is not about politics, this is about people's health. thank you very much.
strategy 2020 and the lisbon strategy have something in common. the belief that the economy needs to be managed. economic recovery or crisis, the commission's recipe is unfortunately the same. strategy 2020 says that easy access to credit and short-term thinking have resulted in behaviour that has led to unfounded growth and large imbalances. but you will read further in the strategy that the commission will also seek to improve access to capital and to facilitate access to finance for smes. again, artificially increased availability of credit, which will again lead to speculation and unfounded growth. in 1991, the then malaysian prime minister announced the vision 2020 project, in malay vavasan 2020. according to it, malaysia was supposed to equal great britain, france, germany or japan in 2020. ladies and gentlemen, the planned economy is not working, as all our colleagues from the new member states, including the commissioner, can confirm.
i would like to begin by congratulating our colleague, the author of this report, on his election to the important new post of president of the hungarian parliament. let me also take this opportunity to express my hope that mr pál schmitt, with his wisdom, his broad political vision and his calm and balanced approach to his duties, will also contribute to the continuing improvement of hungary's coexistence with its neighbours. and now for a new partnership to modernize the universities. the key finding for the whole debate is, i think, expressed in the introduction to point 2 of the draft opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, which states, and i quote, 'that the challenges set out in the commission's communication are not new and have not been successfully addressed so far'. in other words, the commission has drawn up visions, repeated them and issued calls, perhaps even in the hope of achieving something, but unfortunately no major improvement has yet been made in this area. it would be wiser, commissioner, to first analyse in depth the reasons why previous calls for proposals have not produced the desired results, and then to define pragmatically new and really effective ways of achieving genuine and high-quality cooperation between universities and manufacturing companies.
representatives of the armenian administration alerted me yesterday that in the report submitted on the need for a european union strategy for the south caucasus, in the part concerning the nagorno-karabakh conflict, there were phrases that are not in line with the official position of the european union from the provision of the declaration adopted by the foreign ministers of all the osce member states, as well as from the provision of the declaration of the osce ministers issued in athens on 2 december 2009. in particular, paragraphs 8 and 10 contain wording that does not correspond to the madrid principles agreed between the parties within the osce minsk group. if adopted as proposed, the above points could become a serious obstacle to further progress in the peace settlement process in nagorno-karabakh. in order to allow the objectivity of these reservations to be established, i would therefore suggest that we consider one of the two options mentioned: either to delete the disputed provisions from the report submitted, or to postpone the vote on this report until a later date, so that our caucasian friends can have time to explain to the european parliament their position on the report submitted.
i believe that deepening the dialogue between universities and businesses will contribute to economic growth. i find the growing number of young unemployed alarming. the precarious employment situation of young people often leads them to be discouraged from starting a family or to delay it too long, which ultimately has a negative impact on the economy and the social sphere in the light of the demographic transformation in europe. the dialogue should therefore include measures to promote the entry of young people into the labour market and to enable them to develop their full potential. other topics should include the use of education as a means of combating poverty, inequality and social exclusion, with special attention to people with disabilities. for the reasons set out above, i support the report.
the european community grants financial assistance to lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria to support their efforts to fulfil the commitment related to the decommissioning of the first generation of nuclear reactors. the financial assistance and decommissioning granted to bulgaria until 2009 was mainly intended for preparatory work. the purpose of the proposal for a continuation is to provide assistance to bulgaria to accompany and ensure the security and maintenance of... (speaker was interrupted.)
in writing. - bulgaria, in its accession treaty, has undertaken, like slovakia and lithuania, to provide a part of its nuclear energy production in detail. a further grant was granted in 2009 for the construction of a nuclear power plant, but in the case of the other member states, it was extended in 2013. this means that approximately €860 million in aid will be given to the regions. and the whole process of harvesting the timber takes a very long time, because it is not enough for the power plant to be completely clean and networked. in such cases, when a nuclear power plant and the thermal energy generated are inoperative, the power generated must be taken into account. bulgaria does not have a power supply to its neighbouring countries because they do not have electricity. a four-reactor steel plant with a capacity of 1700 mw is reported to bulgaria. the bulgarian government and the european union are unable to secure electricity and heat without financial assistance, which is partly financed by the eu outside the country. i am aware that the bulgarian government has no budget and is therefore obliged to support them. we've already spent a lot of money on the nuclear power plant, but we're just wondering if it's not better if the nuclear power plant is not a hospital, but a hospital? the bridge has no specific goat-ra gondola. and some central european countries have low safety standards and notification should be encouraged because they refer to nuclear power plants as harmless.
in writing. european civilization as we know it today would not be possible without religious freedom. the search for what is beyond man must be accompanied by tolerance. for the way to god - and the way from god - is different and unique for each person. if nothing else, this is what we have learned in the two thousand years of christianity in europe. this experience has been long and painful, redeemed by the lives of millions of innocent people. that is why we europeans have the right to tell others not to go down this path. and that is why we will always and in every country condemn the perpetration of violence and the murder of innocents. especially when it comes to our ally and friend
the demonstrations in thailand have unfortunately been going on for weeks. the violence is directed at the civilian population, which is the direct victim of the bloody clashes between armed anti-government demonstrators and the state forces. i would therefore like to express my condolences to the families affected by the loss of their loved one. i consider it a top priority in this tense situation that both sides renounce physical violence and prevent further loss of life. and i join the call for an immediate end to the ongoing violence and for the opening of a constructive dialogue in order to resolve the conflict in a peaceful and democratic way. i also call on the thai government not to resort to unjustified and unjustified interference with human rights during the declared state of emergency.
the political conflict in thailand has quickly escalated into serious civil unrest, resulting in the deaths of many protesters after the intervention of repressive authorities. it is reprehensible when a state uses brute force and unchecked repression against its own citizens. therefore, madam president, mr commissioner, it is necessary for the european union to use its political influence on the parties involved in the conflict and to call for a peaceful solution to the political conflict so that the thai people do not pay for the political disputes of the leaders of the various groups. the thai government in particular must be responsible for a peaceful and peaceful resolution of this conflict.
thank you very much, mr. president. i would like to join my colleague herczog edit, from the industry committee, in making a brief comment. i know there's been talk about how little money we have and how much we should spend on everything, but i have to tell you that i would really like to see funding for research programs that are going to improve the energy supply... (the president cut the speaker off)
thank you, mr. president, and i apologize for the misunderstanding. i would like to make a few comments as a member of the committee on industry on research programmes aimed at ensuring the sustainable security of energy supply. the iter fusion reactor programme has been discussed here recently. i'd like to inform my colleagues who may not know that we've made commitments in this program that we really can't back out of. it is the only research programme in the world where the european union has a leading role. countries like russia, china, the united states. so i would ask my colleagues and the people who are preparing the budget to think about this programme. i know it's very expensive, but i'd like to see you donate to this program.
the new right-wing hungarian government of prime minister orbán, which has a constitutional majority in the hungarian parliament, has bet on crude nationalism. the first act of the new hungarian parliament was the law on dual citizenship. it opens up the possibility of acquiring hungarian citizenship for members of hungarian minorities in neighbouring countries solely on the basis of ethnicity. this law, which has significant extraterritorial effects, has been refused by the hungarian government to negotiate with neighbouring countries. it is a gross violation of the european principles of friendly coexistence between peoples. the conclusions of the treaty of trianon and the post-war european order are also openly questioned in the highest hungarian political circles. this is a warning to europe, to say the least. such extempore events preceded several wars on our continent.
the central european region is suffering from floods perhaps like never before. in addition to poland, hungary, and the czech republic, slovakia was hit by a flood wave. so the need for european union solidarity is great now. it is particularly important that help arrives quickly. i would ask the commission to mobilise all possible means to mitigate the damage, since no member state has sufficient reserves to repair such extensive damage. the second problem i would like to draw attention to is the discrimination that the amendment to the slovak citizenship act will bring against those who would acquire another nationality in addition to slovak citizenship after 17 july, regardless of whether it is a member state or a third country nationality. under the new law, a number of jobs will be denied to dual citizens, including public service and firefighting, on the grounds that they pose a security risk to the state. this kind of stigmatization of citizens is completely unacceptable.
these days we are commemorating the 90th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of trianon. under the trianon dictate, historic hungary lost two-thirds of its territory and more than half of its population. millions of hungarians were forced to live in foreign countries without leaving their homeland. yet we must overcome this injustice, unprecedented in the history of modern europe, and accept it with humility, for the sake of a happy, common european vision. we don't think of settling the territories by changing the borders, we only ask for one thing, respect, the free exercise of our language and culture. unfortunately, we hungarians in slovakia cannot be completely satisfied with this. the decision of the new hungarian government to grant dual citizenship to hungarians stranded outside the border is a symbolic gesture, which is intended to signal the ideological cohesion of the hungarian nation. this poses no threat to the surrounding countries, so we ask that citizens concerned be allowed to do so without conditions.
on june 3, archbishop luigi padovese, the head of the catholic church in turkey, was assassinated. let me make two points. the tragedy is explained by a well-known recipe: the mental instability of the killer. a common argument used to explain other religious killings in turkey. a diagnosis made before the investigation even began. the easiest way is to frame the whole thing and then label the perpetrator as a religious extremist. secondly, i am surprised that, at political level, apart from the president of the group of the european people's party, no other leading european politician has reacted. it also shows that the work of the media is bearing fruit. when it comes to a catholic matter, he responds as he sees fit. either he stays quiet, or there's gonna be a hate campaign. i ask the european institutions to not only closely monitor the investigation into this murder, but to make the persecution of christians and the violation of human rights in turkey one of the important issues in the negotiation process.
i would also like to support this report, which really opens the door to the introduction of new technology, the technology of the future. the use of this technology in industrial production will really change the lives of our citizens and therefore the characterisation and assessment or disclosure of the characteristics of individual products and products. however, with this new technology, there is a real need to legislate to protect citizens' privacy, because the technology will allow not only products but also the users of these products to be monitored and tracked. it is therefore essential to ensure that the technology that is put into practice is legally secured in such a way that it does not harm the privacy of citizens.
the internet is undoubtedly a source of a vast amount of information - it is a sea, indeed an ocean of information. but we also have to look at the value of this information, because some of it is misleading, it's false, and it's disinformation rather than information for people. the internet has also brought pornography and gambling into our homes, into our children's bedrooms. and i think that's a problem that we should be addressing at the same time as opening up this internet market. we also have to look at the implications of openness, and we have to look at whether a parent or a family is able to defend themselves against all of the information and all of the things that the internet brings. i think the other side of the openness of the internet has to be the responsibility and accountability of the institutions that provide those opportunities.
the rapporteur. − the proposed proposal would amend directive 2002/15/ec in the field of social protection. the commission's proposal covers three issues: exempting private hauliers from the statutory regulation, clarifying the concept of night work and promoting the application of the law. the directive itself, including the amendment, is supplementary and applies only to vehicles over 3.5 tonnes, like other legislation in force in road transport, and therefore could not apply to drivers of smaller commercial vehicles. the amendment was rejected by the employment committee by 30 votes to 19. during the preparation of the law, several misconceptions arose. some of the things that could have influenced the deputies i'd like to avoid here. first time around. the experts are unanimous in their view that extending the directive to private carriers following the rejection of the commission proposal will not improve road safety. available statistics and accident studies show that freight hauliers are at fault in only 6% of accidents and fatigue is present in only 0,06% of accidents, while driving time, which really affects road safety, is a subject of another regulation, regulation 561/2006, and this also applies to private hauliers. the time spent loading is supplementary and cannot constitute a major part of working time, as the legislation does not apply to haulage within 100 km, for example. second of all. the unions believe that private carriers can work up to 86 hours in the absence of regulation. the regulation strictly regulates driving time. he shall be required to work 45 hours a week for a period of two weeks, but not more than 56 hours in any one week. this is precisely recorded by the digital tachograph, and rest periods are regulated by decree, so the 86-hour workweek is a hypothetical assumption that is not supported by any study, survey, or statistical data. third time. the commission proposal would limit the scope of the directive to employees and pseudo-private carriers. there is no legislation regulating the working hours of private contractors. restrictions on working hours are an important means of social protection for workers, but in the case of private transport operators, the employer and the employee are the same person, and it is therefore an excessive measure to protect the private transport operators against themselves. fourth time. when the arguments are exhausted, the real reason is revealed, social dumping. let no one be misled by the concept, private hauliers, small entrepreneurs can be just as unpleasant competitors in the market as private hauliers from the new member states. unfortunately, i had to experience the polish plumber's case and his spirit again. the next point i would like to make is that there is a widespread phenomenon in the labour market which is not a good thing and cannot be dealt with exclusively in the field of road transport, namely the issue of pseudo-private entrepreneurs, which is a real european problem, which is deteriorating the competitive environment and the labour market. this is therefore something that needs to be addressed and this expectation is clearly stated in the amendment proposal. amendment no 30, tabled by us on behalf of the ppe, alde, ecr and efd, is based on the commission proposal, which is supported by the council, for which i thank it, and which we shall vote on in parts. let me say one more thing. as a compromise, we propose that a member state may, if it sees fit, extend the scope of the directive to private carriers.
the rapporteur. - i'd like to briefly address five questions. the rules of procedure. i know, having studied the rules of procedure, that the mp is free to carry out his mandate, so he can consult with whoever he wants. the rules of procedure do not require a member to express the committee's position. the position of the plenary is the binding one. that's exactly what the protocol says. i do not question the basis on which the socialist group tabled its own amendment, nor the consultation with whom it did so. in agreement with the shadow rapporteurs, i also had informal talks with the commission and council representatives, as i considered important. the question of pseudo-private entrepreneurs is, in my view, a real european problem and we have put this into the proposal - which we have finally put into the proposal with the colleagues who considered it important to exclude private entrepreneurs. so this is a question that needs to be addressed, but it's not a sector-specific question. there is a mistake, which has been repeated here, that compliance with this legislation can be internationally verified. this legislation requires national controls, and i would like to say that at a 4% increase, the cost of inspection would be more expensive than moving parliament from brussels to strasbourg. i ask my colleagues to consider this. if we reject this proposal, i would also like to tell my colleagues that we are putting third country carriers in a better position. i ask my colleagues to take into account that this is the proposal that the commission has approved. if we reject the commission's proposal, the european commission's proposal, it is pointless, expensive and unworkable.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs renate sommer, for her work in preparing the report, which focused on improving the directive drawn up by the commission. i believe that when we label food, we have to focus on meaning. the required data must be given in comparable values, not lost in any symbols or marks. next, we need to focus on clarity. the essential data and information should be shown on the front page so that they are clear at first glance. it is sufficient to provide additional information on the ingredients on the reverse side of the product. next, we need to focus on objectivity. the supplier must be responsible for the truthful information on the products, even under penalty of a penalty. the next thing we have to look at is the readability of the information. the font size and thickness specified in the commission proposal are insufficient. the basic data shall be clear to the consumer at first glance. as regards the country of origin, i see a number of unresolved problems. the final producers often buy semi-finished products on the market at advantageous prices and take turns from different suppliers from different countries, and then mix these raw materials in the final product. i'll list specific products like salami, sausage. in such cases, it may be difficult to indicate the country of origin.
let me thank my colleague, renate sommer, for her hard and thorough work on the report on this draft regulation. it is a very important legal provision, especially in view of the health of europeans, which comes first. today, it is undeniable that many diseases, as well as diseases of civilization, are related to poor nutrition, and therefore we must approach this problem conceptually. i want to emphasise that the consumer must be given clear and transparent information about the nutritional value of the product, but he must decide for himself. our goal is to tell the consumer what is, not what to eat. therefore, i consider the traffic light system to be superficial, rather inadequate. since up to 80% of agri-food producers are small and medium-sized enterprises, it should also be stressed that the measures taken must not place an excessive burden on them.
mr president, with all due respect to you and to this institution, when we are now discussing the rules of procedure and the adaptation of the treaty of lisbon, we cannot fail to mention the hole in the rules of procedure which made possible such a vote and such a result in the election of mr tőkéš as vice-president. i do not understand how the chairmen can issue conflicting votes, that is to say, conflicting results of votes, and i understand all my colleagues who have doubts as to whether their votes have been correctly counted. from this point of view, i think that the european union and the european parliament should act in a transparent and transparent manner, and if some members, colleagues, feel that their votes have been evaluated by the voting machine differently from the way they voted, and they have not had the opportunity to verify this on their monitors, then that vote will probably still be contradictory. in this respect, i think that in the interests of mr tőkéš and the credibility of the european parliament, it is really necessary to return to this vote and to vote again so that there is no doubt in the future about the election of the vice-president of the european parliament.
, in writing. − the publication of information on the financing of projects by the european funds will clearly enable the public in the member states to engage in a debate on the better use of public funds. increasing transparency requires, in my view, the introduction of clear rules on the disclosure of information, which should not, however, result in an excessive administrative burden for potential beneficiaries who are already struggling with complex administrative requirements. i would very much welcome the timely publication of information on large projects on the internet, allowing direct access to project documentation, especially to environmental impact assessments, the importance of which is often taken lightly or even avoided by the operators. civil society should therefore be able to submit their views on the commission's website, thus contributing to democratic control and to improving the quality of projects.
, in writing. − i consider it unacceptable that global competition leads not only to the relocation of production facilities but also of the relevant research and development capacities to third countries. such a trend must be decisively prevented by a bold and well-thought-out innovation policy that guarantees the competitiveness of the eu economy as well as the transition to a knowledge-based and low-carbon economy. i therefore consider the eu's financial support for innovation to be insufficient, representing less than 1% of the eu budget, and i agree with the rapporteur that this shortfall should be corrected in the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020, which will be put into action at the end of this year. at the same time, given that the financial crisis has contributed to the freezing of loans for innovative projects by enterprises, member states should also give serious consideration to significantly increasing research and development funding, which will guarantee their competitiveness in the long term and contribute to the preservation and creation of jobs.
mr president, commissioner, the charter of women's rights, which is the subject of the debate, refers to the united nations acts. the victims of this procedure are the national governments, which alone have the power to implement their decisions based on national needs. referring to the united nations is an effective way of diluting the authority of national institutions. we do not need a charter as long as the existing legal instruments are not implemented. but collective ignorance means that we women would rather have a new declaration presented to us than fight to implement legally binding instruments. this charter contributes to a paradoxical development in the european union. we've already gotten used to the regulation of morality. now, social engineering is giving rise to an unusual paradox in the union. we are privatising state economies under the pretext of free competition, but we are stating the relationship between women and men. the union is copying the bad experiences we have had in central and eastern europe. i regret that social engineering does not take into account historical experiences to avoid a new defeat in which women are the first victims.
the report that has been submitted is of a very high quality and detail, which is to be commended. i would like to focus on some specific features that are particularly characteristic of post-communist countries, because here government aid has been given to sectors that are predominantly male or male-dominated, in particular the automotive industry, which is export-oriented and predominantly male-dominated. in contrast, sectors where women predominate have not been so supported by governments. it should also be stressed that post-communist countries are always semi-industrial in nature and that it is therefore very difficult to find space to support those sectors where women are predominantly employed. in the post-communist countries of europe too, we expect very large reductions, especially in the social sphere, and women will again be the most affected. this aspect should therefore also be addressed and solutions sought in this area.
we are talking about a way out of a rather difficult economic and financial situation in europe. we're looking for the culprits in the banks, the credit rating agencies... i'm not saying that they haven't helped us with our current problems, but let's look at ourselves and see if we haven't contributed to this state of affairs by accepting the long-term deficit management of the states and their high debt. responsible budget management is only the first measure we must ensure. next, we need to look at the structure of our society. in europe, we have a very complex system of public administration. a complex organisational business environment with many regional specificities and cross-border barriers. the business state is stifled by a bureaucracy that has long since outgrown its size and scope. we must work to reduce the administrative burden and to support creative people who want to make a living by entrepreneurship and bring jobs to their fellow citizens. this is the only way out of the current situation in europe.
there's been a lot of discussion here today, so i'm going to try to talk about a few things, because i only have a minute. we all agree with the regulations, we all agree that it is our duty to adopt proposals to prevent financial speculation and to bring the financial sector as a whole under greater control. but it is also true that, before the last g20 summit, we were very clear here about how we would be able to fight precisely tax havens or countries that offer tax havens. nothing has been done about it. i'm going to talk about the other thing, which is the international monetary fund. we want to give the international monetary fund enormous powers, we want to give it possibilities, and it is as if we forget that this institution, despite its vast resources, has failed to anticipate the crisis that is coming to the european union, has failed to protect our economies from this crisis, and today we want to give it great powers again. finally, i would like to say that we must strengthen cooperation in parliament and in the institutions, we must harmonise tax policies, we must harmonise social policies. without it, europe will not emerge from the crisis.
the rapporteur. - i regret to say that the possibilities include the launch of infringement proceedings against 25 member states tomorrow. i'd like to ask that my name be removed from the report because i have no intention of contributing to it.
in writing. − explanation of vote: i welcome the fact that the international renewable energy agency has been discussed in plenary and i am glad that i could vote in favour of it. i believe it is important to establish an international centre as soon as possible, which will try to help and advise 75 countries outside the eu on the introduction of renewable energy, the design of targeted programmes, and provide training and advice on best practice and funding opportunities. i would also stress that the irena programme should be signed by all eu member states (20 have signed so far) so that everyone can become part of this international cooperation, so that by exchanging experiences we can further develop our practices in the field of renewable energy sources. to meet our 2020 targets of reducing carbon emissions and increasing energy efficiency, every opportunity must be seized and the agency can play a major role in this.
in writing. - food legislation should be based on facts, not impressions. the information on the packaging should be accurate, legible and understandable. the nutritional profile is the exact opposite. it's not a fact, it's an impression. it's also a way of telling people what to eat and what not to eat. this unnecessary, sometimes even misleading, information does not belong on food packaging. the fact that the proposal to abolish the obligation to provide information on the nutritional profile was not adopted is evidence of the statism that is still deeply rooted in the minds of politicians and the public administration. i believe that this way of thinking is the real cause of the economic crisis in europe.
the european union is undoubtedly a global leader in protecting human rights, which are an integral part of democracy. but that brings with it a lot of obligations and a lot of obligations that we have to the world. human rights defenders suffer from persecution, tyranny and often physical violence, and i am therefore pleased that mrs hautala has presented the report in this form. the adoption of the lisbon treaty should make us play a key role in this area, in particular through the european union's representations in third countries. we have not been able to do so so far, and we should therefore use all the tools available to us to monitor the human rights situation and support human rights defenders with our new powers. in each of the countries where the commission is represented, there should be qualified political representatives whose priority agenda is human rights and democracy. thank you again, reporter.
north korea is a collective prison where the most serious human rights violations - starvation and torture - take place on a daily basis. an estimated 150,000 people are now in concentration camps, and about 100,000 have died as a result of hard labor. the rest of the population suffers from permanent hunger, persecution, and is critically dependent on international aid. it is essential that the european parliament and the union take a clear position on the current alarming situation, which has been exacerbated by the recent attack on the south korean naval vessel cheonan. such an attack poses a threat to the overall security and peace of the korean peninsula. i express my disappointment and regret that the present motion for a resolution does not expressly condemn the systematic and gross violation of human rights in north korea. i am convinced that this issue deserves further discussion during the july plenary session of parliament.
it is an objective fact that the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina on the path of european integration lags far behind other states in the region. the same negative reality is that we have for a long time been witnessing very limited progress in the outcome of the reforms linked to future membership of the european union. 2010 is an election year in bosnia and herzegovina. this is also the reason, or perhaps more precisely, why the results have been very weak in terms of any reforms. the current situation in the country is such that there is little reason to expect that after the elections there will be any dramatic positive change in this area. however, the country's political leadership should clearly realise that only concrete results in the reform process and in meeting the criteria can move the country forward on its european path. one of the most important will be constitutional reform, which should bring about a coherent constitutional system with functioning, independent and, above all, efficient institutions. equally important are economic reforms, especially structural ones, which would remove all obstacles to the creation of a single economic area in the country and to the restarting of the privatisation process. the negative is the growth of unemployment, which according to official statistics is about 40%. on the other hand, it is necessary to state objectively and to state as a positive fact the successful fulfilment of the criteria for the introduction of the visa-free regime. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, in my view, gives an objective assessment of the situation in the country, it shows the european union's willingness to help the country in its integration ambitions, provided that its government and citizens are able to tackle and solve the problems that are necessary for membership of the european union, that they are able to tackle and solve them themselves.
unfortunately, the balkans and the area of bosnia and herzegovina can still be described as a region that could be called a 'dust court'. personally, i think it is very important for the european union to maintain the strong influence we have in this region and to show this region, and specifically bosnia and herzegovina, that it has a possible european future, and one of the areas where we can do this is in visa liberalisation, which i very much support. but i also think that we can't change the old politicians, but we can show the younger generation and the new generation that the european union is there for them, whether it's through education or by encouraging more exchanges between young people within the european union and bosnia and herzegovina.
we are talking about the implementation of the first railway package in the countries of the european union. we note that although the directives governing railway transport rules should have been implemented as early as 2003, they have not been transposed into national legislation in 22 countries to date. commissioner, would it not be good to reflect on whether the rules introduced by the first railway package are good if the majority of member states refuse to apply them? would it not be right for you to meet the transport ministers of the member states on this subject to find out what the reasons are for this state of affairs? perhaps in such a pragmatic dialogue we can successfully move the problem of implementing the first railway package forward in order to improve the conditions of rail transport throughout europe.
for the efd group. during may and early june 2010, exceptionally unfavourable weather conditions caused extreme flooding in poland, the czech republic, hungary and the entire territory of the slovak republic. the flood situation was preceded by april 2010, which was the warmest april in terms of global average air temperature since 1880. ocean and sea vapour had brought an unusually high amount of water vapor into the atmosphere for the time of year, and it was only a matter of time when and where it would condense and fall to earth as rain. it was over central europe, the czech republic, poland, slovakia, and hungary. the persistent rainfall then alternated with intense storms over slovakia for practically more than a month, from 12 april to 5 june 2010. heavy rain caused significant rises in the water levels in all watercourses in the territory of the slovak republic. however, the rapid rise in water levels was not caused by the rainfall itself, but also by the development of the flood situation, which was significantly intensified and accelerated by the extremely high saturation of the soil with water from long-term rains. nature was no longer able to hold water, and most of the rainfall flowed to the surface, not to the watercourses, flooding inhabited areas, manufacturing sites, or roads and railways. extreme water levels and water flows have been recorded in virtually all water meters and in exceptional cases exceeded the water flow values of water bodies that tend to recur on average once every 100 to 500 years. the unrestrained water element first poured out of the riverbed, then began to tear up the dams, flood the fields, destroy roads, tear down bridges, and submerge railroad tracks. gradually, it flooded fields, overflowed villages, cities, and destroyed human habitations. the floodwaters took not only bridges, roads, and homes, but also lives. near košice in eastern slovakia, an entire village has even been set in motion, an 11-by-20-meter thick layer of compacted soil with family houses slowly slides down the slide, and nearly 190 damaged homes are nearing ruin every day. after the rains, 300,000 hectares of agricultural land in slovakia were left flooded. it will therefore be appropriate to activate the use of the solidarity fund to compensate for flood damage and costs in this situation. the current estimate of the total damage in slovakia is more than eur 260 million.
natural disasters in the form of floods have repeatedly swept across parts of europe. recently, floods have reappeared in central europe in the territories of poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary. they have caused enormous damage which requires the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. but devastating floods are affecting ever larger areas of europe. it shows that, alongside measures to make aid delivery more flexible and efficient, europe needs to reassess its priorities for spending pooled european resources. the implementation of joint investments in flood prevention, in water security for drinking water supply, but also for irrigation and electricity generation must become a priority in infrastructure development programmes at the level of the member states and the european union as a whole.
in this parliament we like to use words like common europe, european unity or a europe for citizens. every year, we open our doors to thousands of visitors from all the member states. through legislation, we seek to promote the ideal of europe as a united community of nations. but all these fine words and lofty ideals would be worth nothing but warm air and paper if we could not back them up with practical action. the natural disaster that has hit the central european region, germany and, since yesterday, france, has endangered lives and caused enormous damage. and we know now that the people who live in these places cannot cope with the flood effects on their own. they rightly expect help from their own state and solidarity from their neighbours, because they would not have done otherwise in a similar situation. man cannot command the elements of nature. but a community of people united by a bond of solidarity can cope with any natural disaster. by adopting this resolution, we will send a clear signal that europe is not just a legal construct or an impersonal market, but above all a functioning community of nations helping each other in need. it will be a signal that europe has not only a head but also a human heart. ladies and gentlemen, as i speak these words, it is raining again in slovakia.
the floods that affected almost all of eastern europe were catastrophic for these countries. in slovakia, the eastern part of slovakia, where i live, was the hardest hit, and i saw firsthand how the water destroyed people's lifelong efforts. it destroyed roads, houses, bridges, crops in the fields, but unfortunately, the water element also claimed human lives. in one month, the total annual rainfall dropped. for such a quantity of water, even flood control measures were simply ineffective. in the košice region alone, more than 4,000 family homes were under water. the small town of kežmarok, with a population of 17,000, was almost completely flooded. people are having a hard time recovering from this disaster. the threat of water is not completely over, and more are on the way. after the floods, sewage treatment plants have been flooded, drinking water sources have been polluted, the effects of warm weather have threatened the calamitous mosquito population, and many roads and bridges are still impassable. the impact of many landslides has destroyed many family homes, making them uninhabitable. despite the solidarity of the people and the state aid, the demand for funds from the eu solidarity fund is urgent. the sooner we help the affected areas, the sooner we can alleviate the suffering of the people living in those areas. there is also a large margin for the use of cohesion fund funds. the joint motion for a resolution of the group of meps offers all the solutions for aid.
tonight, we're talking about tens of millions of people. we're talking about people who, in the last few weeks, have lost their entire existence, their possessions, their homes, everything they've worked for their entire lives, minute by minute. we're also talking about farmers who have lost their land, but they've also lost the crop that was their only livelihood for the whole year. all these people are watching our parliament tonight, waiting to see what decisions we make. we would like to help them from our national budgets, but our national budgets are exhausted, they are exhausted by having to deal with the impact of the economic and financial crisis, and they are exhausted by being bound by the rules of the stability and growth pact. hence the hope they have in the european parliament. and we're also talking about one thing that no one has mentioned yet, and that is that insurance companies, commercial insurance companies, have refused to insure these people's homes many times because they were in so-called flood zones. i would like to see more attention paid to this by insurance companies, and to see if we can find solutions to force insurance companies to insure these people, and to make sure that these policies are not on the verge of being usurious.
first of all, i would like to express my sympathy and solidarity with the affected regions in poland, the czech republic, hungary, but also in austria, germany and now france, as well as in my native slovakia, and also to express my condolences to the families of the victims. the floods in central europe caused heavy material damage, damaged the overall infrastructure, deprived thousands of people of their roofs, and claimed many lives. however, the regulation establishing the eu solidarity fund, as it stands, presents many shortcomings. the fund was originally intended for major natural disasters and the evidence gathered so far shows that this instrument needs to be further modernised. this concerns in particular the lack of speed of funding provision and transparency of criteria. i therefore call on the commission to take account of the need to modernise it. and since the mobilisation of the solidarity fund is subject to the consent of the european parliament, i will personally work with my colleagues to ensure that such consent is given as soon as possible.
for the efd group. the principle of mutual recognition of judgments, respecting the different legal traditions and methods of the countries, operating on the basis of mutual trust between judges, persons practising the legal profession and citizens, is a fundamental prerequisite for the proper functioning of the european judicial area. the differences between the judicial systems of the member states should in no way undermine the legal certainty of our citizens or complicate their right to a fair and competent assessment of their problems. it is therefore essential to create the best possible conditions for the expansion of european judicial training. in order to better understand the interconnectedness of the european and national legal environments, the european union must also make greater efforts to create a network of accredited training institutions for lawyers, which will be able to provide training and courses for lawyers and judges on the specificities of national comparative and european law and their interconnections. these investments in improving the judicial and legal environment of the european union must be seen as a necessary cost to achieve the very important common goal of improving the satisfaction and legal certainty of all our citizens.
i find it most regrettable that in many countries the work of human rights defenders is deliberately hampered by restrictive legislation and administrative obstacles or even completely rendered impossible by arbitrary arrests, imprisonment, persecution and intimidation. given the european union's role as the protector of human rights in the world, i join the call for the commission to make full use of the new powers it has acquired as a result of the adoption of the treaty of lisbon to implement the european union's human rights guidelines and to systematically insert human rights clauses in all partnership and trade agreements between the eu and third countries. i also fully support the precautionary approach, such as the human rights assessment of third countries entering into trade relations with the eu, and i believe that it would be useful to involve the business community.
the heavy rains of the past few months have created a catastrophic situation in central europe. the rivers, coming out of their banks, washed our streets, our houses. many people have lost almost everything, so it is vital that they be quickly identified and assisted. i am very pleased that the european parliament has taken this into account, has reacted quickly and wants to help the people of the countries in trouble. i therefore consider it important to support the motion for a resolution and would like to call on the european commission to provide adequate financial support to my fellow citizens in central europe with the same rapidity.
in writing. − this controversial report was rejected in its first draft by members of the ep's committee on women's rights from several political groups. the report rejects the basic human right of freedom of conscience in relation to abortion and attacks representatives of religious communities. i cannot agree to that, nor can my constituents in slovakia. i am also strongly opposed to this circumvention and limitation of the authority of national institutions. it's social engineering, and it presents an unusual paradox: on the one hand, we're privatizing state economies under the guise of free competition, but at the same time, we're nationalizing the relationship between men and women. the union is thus copying the bad experience we know from central and eastern europe.
in the introduction, point 11 of the european council conclusions refers to taking into account the specific situation of euro area countries in strengthening preventive instruments to achieve the objectives of the stability and growth pact. one such instrument is the new european stability mechanism. the publication of the report naturally opened up a legitimate debate on the structure and fairness of the respective shares of each country committed to complying with it. financial experts have repeatedly agreed that the proposal put forward in the ministerial conference, which sets the level of a country's contribution according to its share of the european central bank's capital, is completely inappropriate in this case, as it favours countries with higher assets in the banking sector at the expense of others. it would seem more correct to determine the amount of each country's guarantee in the stabilisation mechanism according to the decision key in the european central bank. but the open question remains the strange solidarity philosophy of the stabilization mechanism, which also counts on poor countries going into debt for the sake of solvency and maintaining the high living standards of poorly managed rich countries. i'm not sure that's right.
in writing. the deployment of intelligent transport systems in road transport is placing an increasing burden on the european union's transport systems. by 2020, road freight transport is forecast to grow by 55% and road passenger transport by 36%, which will increase energy consumption and co2 emissions from transport. they must do everything possible to make road transport even safer, more efficient and cleaner through innovative research. however, this calls for an unprecedented concertation, since local, regional and national solutions without harmonisation may jeopardise the creation of a single market, which may result in the inefficiency of its (intelligent transport systems). i am very pleased that the council and parliament are on the same page on this matter. i believe that its should be developed as soon as possible, especially in the field of urban transport and freight transport. however, to ensure easy and fast access for all, we need a common system of standards that can guarantee effective cooperation between member states, not only with each other but also with the competent bodies. the current measures cannot adequately meet the growing needs of transport, and new, innovative solutions are essential. another challenge is to reduce rising co2 emissions through these tools.
for the efd group. the sustainable future of transport report outlines the key challenges facing the transport sector today and provides policy advice and recommendations on how best to address these challenges. we all agree that efficient and well-organised transport supports life in society and helps to increase the efficiency of the economy. it is therefore essential to improve the quality and efficiency of all modes of transport - road, rail, river, sea and air - while strictly respecting the necessary principles of environmental protection. sustained demand growth and congestion in urban areas are responsible for up to 40% of co2 emissions and up to 70% of other harmful emissions from motor vehicles. the effective promotion of low co2 technologies in transport is therefore a natural need for environmental protection. however, the development of electric vehicle technologies requires the acceleration of work on the basic normative and regulatory measures of the european union, which would definitely pave the way for the more massive use of electric propulsion in transport. and here, i think, mr commissioner, we all rightly see great reservations in the work of the european commission, which in this area is not keeping pace with the needs of the present time, when japanese companies, in particular, developing electric vehicles, are already working intensively on the standardization and unification of regulations in this area.
so, symbolically a young man at last. youth unemployment is actually currently averaging around 21 percent in the european union, but in some countries it's even hovering around 40 percent, which is a huge number that definitely needs to be stopped. young people are the most vulnerable group in society at the moment, because if you cannot find a job, you cannot secure an independent home, and young people cannot start a family, as far as the demographic problem of the european union as such is concerned. but we need to help young people in a real way, not just by saying we're going to do something, but by taking real action that makes a difference. and it's also important to realize that in a time of global economic crisis, cutting back on education is certainly the stupidest course of action we can take, and it will only secure a stupid population in the future.
on 28 june, a new agreement on the transfer of data of citizens of the european union to the united states was signed. the changes that have been made to this agreement, i think, are not quite convincing. we talked about how european union officials in washington would have the ability to influence the selection of data to be processed. of course, it will depend on the competence of these officials, but we don't need them there to have a say in that, because the data and the data will be processed primarily by american intelligence officers. we also discussed the possibility of an independent court reversing a decision. but the court can act on citizens' objections, and citizens don't know they're being watched by intelligence. so how can the court make any decisions if the court doesn't know that a citizen is being watched? it was also said that the european union is preparing its own procedure for the future, but that procedure should already have been adopted and approved.
thank you to mrs malmström and mr alvaro for the report. we are pleased that progress has been made on this important but controversial treaty. i voted for it in february with the majority of the epp group, but i feel that, however unpleasant the delay, we have achieved better conditions for eu citizens in the new wording. we had to find the right balance between data protection and security, and i feel that we have done a great deal of that. in the future, however, it will be important to build our own security system against terrorist financing, which we will be able to operate independently on eu soil. the establishment and operation of the system should place great emphasis on full respect for the data protection rights of our citizens.
i fully support mr cancian's report on the regulation on passenger rights in bus and coach transport. despite the ratification of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities continue to face discrimination in access to transport. equal access to transport is one of the basic conditions for independent living. given that most travel takes place at local level, access to bus transport is essential for people with disabilities, including blind and partially sighted people. i fully support the proposed amendments which strengthen the rights of persons with disabilities, namely the right to transport, the right to assistance and the right to information in accessible formats, including braille and enlarged print. i particularly welcome the requirement that drivers and terminal workers be provided with disability training. securing these rights will make a fundamental difference in the lives of our blind and partially sighted fellow citizens.
in writing. - explanation of vote: i consider it very important that, since the european union cannot accede to the paris convention, which only sovereign states can do, the member states should exercise this right, which is already guaranteed by the treaty of lisbon. it is important to support the creation of international exhibitions, as they provide an opportunity for union citizens to gain insight into innovation research. i fully agree that the host country should allow the temporary importation of goods for the participants, and i voted in favour of this resolution. thank you, sir.
in writing. − explanation of vote: since its creation in 2004, frontex has become an important tool in the common european strategy on illegal immigration. this type of international agreement has already proven effective in many cases and has also shown that this type of operational community commitment should not be pursued only by the schengen states. switzerland and liechtenstein should therefore also be given the opportunity to become full members of the cooperation. i welcome the conclusion of the agreement and hope that the member states will do their utmost to ensure that this accession takes place as soon as possible. thank you, sir.
the ongoing turbulence in financial markets shows us that the global financial system is very sensitive to all information about the creditworthiness or solvency of individual participants. of course, european union countries, whether in the euro area or not, cannot avoid being viewed with suspicion from the outside. a responsible and credible economic policy in each member state of the european union is therefore an essential prerequisite for the union's successful functioning. however, efforts to strengthen regulation and supervision alone cannot prevent possible crises. the financial sector's disproportionate rise to the real economy and its quest for profit lead to dangerous practices that have turned the world economy into a special kind of casino, where financial gamblers are ultimately backed by governments and their citizens. therefore, it is necessary to continue patiently to work towards the broadest possible balanced reform of the financial system so that the new rules eliminate gambling behaviour from both the political environment and financial institutions.
inadequate remuneration systems have contributed to excessive and unwise risk-taking at the expense of employees, savers, investors and overall economic growth, which ultimately also contributed to the financial and economic crisis. for this reason, i welcome the initiative to regulate remuneration policies in the financial services sector, which takes account of the experience that managers are often guided by personal financial interests in the management of a company. such excessive risk-taking is in many cases contrary to the long-term interests of the company and its shareholders. moreover, in the case of banks and other financial institutions, taxpayers are exposed to the risk of having to participate in their rescue in the event of financial difficulties. i believe that a high level of remuneration transparency should be ensured and shareholders' right to monitor and comment on the remuneration policy of company executives should be strengthened during the general meeting.
mr president, i would like to highlight the issue of prohibiting the placing on the market of foods derived from cloned animals and their descendants. i strongly believe this is unacceptable, not just from the point of view of a food market that shows food supplies in the eu to be sufficient and that there is no need to make additional use of meat from cloned animals, but also because it raises grave ethical concerns. i would like to particularly note the statement by the european group of ethics, which is aware of the european food safety agency’s scientific findings and recommendations on food safety, animal health and welfare and environmental impact, as well as the indications of the current gaps in the knowledge about animal welfare and the health of animal clones and their offspring. at present, the european group of ethics does not see convincing arguments to justify... (the president cut off the speaker.)
i would like to begin by supporting the efforts of the rapporteur, mr holger krahmer, to achieve the european union's environmental objectives as consistently as possible. on the other hand, i also understand the concern of the governments of the european countries that the strict implementation of the demands formulated by the european parliament may in some cases complicate the economic situation in their countries. however, under certain conditions, a temporary slowdown in economic growth may be an acceptable price for a substantial improvement in the environment of citizens in heavily affected regions. we must therefore continue to press progressively, in a sensitive but firm manner, for the modernisation of production technologies aimed at reducing industrial emissions and engage in a constructive dialogue with industry representatives on the fixing of this philosophy in their development plans.
the position of the european parliament as expressed in the report by mrs caroline lukas is correct, good and should therefore be supported. the continued tolerance of the trade in illegally harvested timber by the governments of some european countries, and their avoidance of criminal sanctions for this activity, cannot be accepted any longer. after examining in more detail the positions of european union governments on the regulation, one is not sure whether some governments are more representative of the views of their citizens or of the views of the economic mafias that profit from illegal logging. the fact that some governments do not care about the illegality of the grey or black economy should not prevent us from tolerating the vandalism of the forests. a decent society makes reasonable rules. decent people respect them, and decent governments should have no problem punishing thieves. therefore, it is necessary (to discontinue).
in writing. it goes without saying that the belgian presidency will focus in particular on the recovery of the european economy, financial markets and public finances itself. at the same time, however, a number of related problems urgently need to be addressed. member states face difficult decisions on reforms of social pension systems. the same is true of public health. however, we must not forget that only a significant strengthening of family policy and support for families with children can bring about a long-term solution to these problems. i therefore support the belgian presidency's efforts to strengthen social protection. women who are mothers are the most at risk of poverty. europe needs concrete results now more than ever. i believe that the plans presented to members of the european parliament today by the belgian presidency will not remain mere promises of a better tomorrow.
i think we all see iceland as culturally, civilisationally and geographically part of europe. we therefore welcome the efforts of the icelandic government to bring that country into the european union. iceland is a highly democratic country which brings to the european union a wealth of experience in the use of renewable resources, geothermal energy, environmental protection and can contribute very effectively to the enrichment of the environmental and energy sector policies in the european union. it is clear that iceland's accession to the european union would be an enrichment for the european union, but the crucial question remains whether the citizens of iceland also want to hand over some of their sovereign powers to brussels, and commit themselves to respecting the rights of the european union over their country. it seems that there will be a problem with this question.
today, pollution can no longer be broken down into individual environmental elements, but must be managed in an integrated way. this led to the european union ippc directive, which covers 52000 installations. these institutions are responsible for a significant proportion of all emissions, so we can say that industry is one of the most important components of the economy, but also one of the most polluting. the ippc directive is designed to regulate the monitoring of emissions by industrial and agricultural companies. however, for the sake of successful regulation, i believe it is important that we can integrate the separate legal instruments into one, because only in this way can we create the best techniques for our member states to develop the most appropriate reference documents. i also support the idea that minimum requirements should be set to ensure that emissions are properly controlled. that's why i voted for the motion.
in writing. − since the crisis, we have been looking for effective solutions to the current economic situation in the eu. we are discussing new instruments to better control financial markets and establishing a european financial stability facility. are we aware of the risk that these central instruments further undermine the principle of subsidiarity? the tendency to dictate to the member states what to do has always been there. the change today is that in the name of tackling the negative effects of the crisis, pressure is being put on member states to agree to comprehensive solutions. those who have reservations may be viewed as saboteurs, and their arguments lose weight over time. yet, what the famous businessman tomáš batý said about the economic crisis of the 1930's still holds true today: "what we used to call the economic crisis is another name for moral poverty. moral poverty is the cause, economic decline is the effect. there are many people in this country who believe that economic decline can be remedied by money. i am threatened by the consequences of this mistake.
we all know that the western balkans need a european perspective. i am pleased that the two reports and resolutions under discussion confirm this perspective and that the belgian presidency has included the continuation of the enlargement process among its priorities. the most important thing for albania will be to ensure a stable and stable democratic internal political situation in the country. the resolution objectively appraises the progress made by albania in the past year in many areas. in particular, when fulfilling the technical criteria for the introduction of the visa-free regime. however, without the regular functioning of democratic institutions and dialogue on their soil, it will be difficult to ensure further progress towards european union. all political issues, including or especially those that have persisted since last year's parliamentary elections, can only be addressed and resolved in accordance with the constitution and with respect for the rule of law in the country. all albanian politicians should be aware of this. three sentences about kosovo. for kosovo, the european process has already begun, but it will certainly be a long-distance march. the european parliament, despite the differences of opinion on kosovo's status, should also confirm its european perspective with this resolution, and on the other hand the people of kosovo should be able to meet all the necessary criteria on the road to european integration.
to talk about the southern region of the serbian state of kosovo without waiting for the opinion of the international court of justice on the legitimacy of its status in the international environment is, i think, from the point of view of international law, quite problematic. neither the serbian government nor several sovereign european countries have so far recognised as a legitimate process the problematic path kosovo has embarked on towards the autonomous governance of its region. kosovo can undoubtedly become part of the european union as an integral part of serbia, whose legitimacy as a separate sovereign european state, i think, no one doubts. attempts to dismantle functioning democratic states by arbitrary nationalist associations, as albanian or other nationalists do, only lead to suffering of citizens. kosovars have the same right to participate in the administration of the serbian state as any national minority in any of the countries of the european union. i am convinced that serbs and kosovars should not be pitted against each other, but should be helped to find a common european path.
hundreds of people have been killed and thousands injured as a result of the situation in kyrgyzstan. in this situation, the european union and the european parliament should also realise that while in some parts of the world we are willing to sacrifice human rights for the sake of stability in the region, this is no longer about the right to be able to vote or be represented, but it is about a fundamental human right, and that is the right to life. the european union has provided financial resources and has provided humanitarian aid. i would also like to thank commissioner ashton very much for that, for really responding very quickly. but this is just the beginning, in my opinion. the european union must realise that the central asia strategy is very weak. we should allocate more funds and more political influence to this region, which, as several of my predecessors have said, is really a region that sees the european union as its great model. recently, some of my colleagues and i were in kazakhstan and tajikistan, and we really experienced firsthand that these people really see us as someone who can really help them. and that's why i think the european union should focus on this. we need to increase our influence because there is, of course, the threat of russia and china, who are waiting for us to fail and they can step in as the great guarantors who will ensure stability, peace and cooperation in this region. we really should realize that this region is very important to us, whether it's the road, the transport between china and the european union, but it's also a region that has very strong natural resources, very large natural resources that the european union also needs. and that's why stability in this region is important to us. we would also need to ensure peace in the matter of the fact that this is the region where afghanistan is located. so this is also a question we must not forget. i have a question for mr. stevenson, who's not listening right now, but i hope he gets it. he kind of made the comment that maybe the riots were actually caused by some supporters or family of former president bakiyev. my question is: can we really rule out that former president bakiyev's family was involved? there really needs to be a very strong investigative review of what happened to be able to find out what the truth is.
aids is still a deadly disease, and despite advances in medicine, it is still killing millions of people on the planet. hiv attacks the immune system so that the patient dies sooner or later from another infection, such as tuberculosis or another intercurrent infection. the vast majority of people are infected during unprotected sex with another infected person, according to epidemiological studies. but let's be honest with each other. who are these infected people, and we've heard this before, i think today, i think it's mostly sex workers who have multiple sexual encounters every day, often without using any protection. they are then the seedbed of disease transmission, and let us not be naive to think that some of these more frequent medical checkups, say once a week, will solve something. as a doctor, i know that if you check someone on monday and they have another check-up in a week, they're already infected and the source of the infection. another risk group, as mr. cashman said earlier, are citizens who are sex workers, often of the same sexual orientation. as we know it exists in this community, because this community is closed, it's smaller, there's a lot of switching partners, and it's also a matter of time before these people in this community get infected. so we have to do something, i'm all for research into new drugs, of course antiretroviral drugs are often not very effective, and i believe that within the seventh framework programme for science and research, which europe science is also supporting, we will find new molecules that will provide treatment for these infected people. i have a lot of notes here. i am in favour of europe helping africa in a worthy way. africa, because there are millions of people, especially in sub-saharan africa, and it's our moral duty to help africa.
cluster munitions are among the weapons most endangering civilians, as they are also used over large areas, against so-called disperse, moving and/or hard-to-see targets. as mentioned earlier, up to 98 percent of the victims are actually people who are not involved in the war, that is, civilians. and a large number of them - 27 percent - are children. in addition, about 30 percent of the cluster bombs fail to detonate, remaining on the ground in the form of mines that threaten civilians long after the conflict has ended. and despite these sad statistics, many of the member states of the european union have not signed the convention on cluster munitions, which prohibits the production, storage and use of cluster munitions, because they have their own economic interests, and this is very sad, their own economic interests in producing and exporting this type of munition. madam president, i strongly disagree with this approach and believe that humanitarian interests and the protection of civilians must be paramount. the european union's task, therefore, in my view, is to urge all states, and in particular the member states of the european union, to sign and ratify the convention on cluster munitions.
we all know that the common agricultural policy of the european union is a very complex and sensitive issue. the continuation of the so-called historical principle in support of agriculture after the enlargement of the european union has led to a considerable disproportion in european economic policy. it is therefore necessary to introduce fair objective criteria into the system for the reallocation of financial support to farmers as soon as possible, in order to create the right conditions for fair competition between farmers in the single european market. the financial support must be distributed in a fair and balanced way so that farmers in all the countries of the european union are entitled to the same amount of support and can compete fairly with each other. for this reason too, i think it is necessary to support amendment no 6 to the report submitted, which helps to bring justice to the mechanisms for supporting european agricultural production.
after almost 30 years of active european union policy, particularly in african countries, a report presented today notes an increase in the number of people living with hiv/aids. it says that in 2008 alone, 2.7 million people were newly infected. the european union has invested billions of euros and the number of infected is growing. i mean, isn't that a reason to wonder if we're doing something wrong? and that's been 30 years? it turns out that it's not condoms that help prevent the spread of hiv/aids, but rather, partner loyalty. nor is the right to abortion the answer, for medicine can now ensure that a woman infected with hiv can have a healthy child. our african friends often tell us, "not only are we poor, but you want us to be few". africa's sexual and reproductive rights policies are not helping. i will therefore ask the european commission to evaluate the effectiveness of spending money to fight hiv/aids.
in writing. - a good agricultural policy is one based on what the consumer needs, not what the producer wants. only 5% of the eu population, including slovakia, is employed in agriculture, but all of us, 100%, are consumers of agricultural production. from the consumer's point of view, quality and price are important. this is true not only of cars and televisions but also of bread, vegetables, meat, and milk. the common agricultural policy, however, turns the issue on its head, because it is based on the needs of farmers. the report thus, in the spirit of the eu's approach so far, pays too much attention to the consequences and ignores the causes. one example in particular: the low interest of young people in working in agriculture and rural life is artificially boosted by incentives and subsidies. a functioning market and a competitive environment would naturally solve this problem. perhaps the only positive aspect of the report, at least in part, is the requirement of fairness, which is particularly important for slovakia and the new member states. if the eu decides to continue its costly and ineffective support policy for farmers beyond 2013, the same rules should apply to everyone.
i am outraged by the way president chavez is running venezuela. his left-wing style of government is reminiscent of the worst communist governments in central and eastern europe before the fall of the berlin wall. maria lourdes afiuni was unjustly detained and her fundamental rights, such as the freedom of her judicial decision, were violated. this case shows that the judiciary is not independent and that venezuela and chavez are a mockery of democracy.
author. − madam president, the democratic people’s republic of korea is anything but democratic as it has one of the worst records on human rights violations in the world. indeed, my personal meeting with civil society representatives on the korean peninsula provided additional painful proof of the extremely disturbing and critical human rights violations in the country. i am deeply disappointed that the human rights situation in the dprk has not improved but rather deteriorated since the last european parliament resolution. over 150 000 political prisoners are still detained in concentration camps, subjected to forced labour, tortured and deliberately starved. moreover, i am shocked by the practice of guilt by association that results in the imprisonment of entire families, including children. therefore the eu and its member states must combine their efforts and put more diplomatic and political pressure on the dprk government to respect the human rights of its citizens. let me finish with one thought. at the same time we must prevent bilateral and multilateral sanctions having a serious negative impact on the ordinary impoverished north korean citizens already suffering from systematic starvation and oppression. (applause)
the democratic people's republic of korea is perhaps the last surviving vestige of world war ii. ideological differences and power interests divided the korean people into two states whose leaders still compete for their truth in their worldview. the north korean peninsula has become a vast ghetto, holding millions of koreans who can only dream of living free under the militant rule of their regime. north korean leaders, under the pretext that the country is at war, keep their citizens in this militant regime. how, then, can we help the korean people in this situation? a more active concerted action by the world powers. the korean people's powers have been divided, and so now they must together put strong pressure on the leaders of north korea, even under threat of criminal prosecution for crimes against humanity, to grant freedom to the north korean people.
the free trade agreement with south korea should generally contribute to stimulating trade and employment growth. however, some industries will benefit greatly from it, while others may suffer significant damage. i support taking into account the legitimate concerns of certain manufacturing sectors, including the automotive industry, and therefore also the adoption of a regulation on the implementation of the eu-korea free trade safeguard clause. given that a free trade agreement may have a different impact on the industrial sectors of individual member states, i fully agree with the rapporteur's proposal that there should be the possibility of applying protective measures at regional level in exceptional cases, as the specific situation in individual member states needs to be taken into account and the regions concerned must be given the possibility to apply measures to avoid a serious negative impact on the regional economy and employment. in conclusion, i would note that the commission should subsequently be vigilant in ensuring the correct and timely implementation of this legal instrument in order to avoid causing serious damage to the eu industry.
the tragic event that took place last monday in slovakia in devínská nová ves near bratislava and which claimed the lives of eight slovak citizens shocked and saddened the whole of slovakia. the machine gun fire resulted in the deaths of 15 people and injuries to others. the motive for the shooting, according to the investigation so far, was bad neighborly relations, which most likely prompted the unstable individual to this heinous act, but it was not a racially motivated act, because of the fact that only one of the eight victims was a person of roma origin. the state authorities' action was swift and the intervention of the specialised police force was adequate and the government is currently pursuing a thorough investigation of this brutal act and will promote through its policy actions leading to the enhancement of citizens' safety and protection of their rights. particular attention will be paid to the so-called higher risk areas and to the reassessment. i just wanted to say, madam president, that the slovak republic has paid tribute to the victims with a state funeral.
given the advantages offered by the single market, the increasing cross-border trading opportunities and legal certainty, harmonisation of the data contained in business registers and the methodology for their acquisition and technical processing is necessary. if we can ensure effective interconnection of business registers, we will not only make it easier for the parties involved to administer the relationship and obtain information, but also strengthen their position in view of the need for transparency of business-legal relations and legal certainty as well. i therefore consider it necessary to harmonise the system of data provided in business registers across all member states. such a procedure could provide substantially greater transparency and utility not only in the abovementioned relationships but also, for example, in the change of the registered offices of companies and other entities and the creation of branches in other member states, cross-border mergers and acquisitions, and could also reduce many undesirable effects.
in the area of international civil procedure, certain differences in national rules governing jurisdiction and the recognition of judgments impede the proper functioning of the internal market. the eight years of existence of the brussels i regulation have shown the importance and need for such a regulation and together with the brussels ii regulation it constitutes a comprehensive european regulation in the field of civil and commercial procedural relations. since the instrument came into existence, it has been ensured that disputes arising in relations with an international element have uniform procedural rules within the european union concerning jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments. the parties thus obtained greater legal certainty despite the different substantive arrangements. personally, i consider this instrument to be one of the most important and widely used in the framework of private international law and i hope that its use will continue to be encouraged and will also be constantly developed and will also be necessary for the decision-making practice of the courts.
this is a particularly relevant issue, perhaps today, when we had the opportunity a few hours ago to discuss the disastrous situation of women in iran and their death sentences, and i trust that the european parliament will send a strong message on this matter. the social integration of women from ethnic minorities is a sensitive issue, because on the one hand there is our european principle of gender equality and equal opportunities, and on the other hand there are of course certain differences in the culture of some ethnic minorities. the priority should be our ability, and i mean us as the majority or as members of the majority section of society, to look not only for options but also for compromises and to accept certain differences that are characteristic of women from ethnic minorities. so i think that the key words for this topic could be kindness, understanding and a willingness to help, and then we can really succeed in integrating these women, and socially integrating them into our societies.
i very much welcome the report on the role of women in an ageing society, particularly because it refuses to see ageing as something negative. very often, in social discussions, the economic understanding of old age dominates. in the reforms of the welfare state, old age is presented as a problem for the pension system or health care. but the elderly have various important roles. and because of their extensive professional experience, they also provide important social or family support. and even if they do not fulfil economically important roles, the higher average life expectancy should be seen as evidence of an improvement in the quality of life in society and older people should be seen not as a burden but as full members of society who deserve a life of dignity. this argument is all the more true for older women, who are at higher risk of poverty and are particularly dependent on public and private services as well as public health care, which also means that older women are affected by their lack or poor quality.
your report was a very ambitious and committed programme for the period ahead and the european parliament will certainly look forward with excitement to the measures you mentioned in your report. a minute is very short, so let me just say that the european parliament, the members of the european parliament, are your opponents, but they are constructive opponents and we want to help you implement what you have presented here. we could join forces against those who are the real brake on european union integration, and that is the european council. we offer you our hand of friendship and our help in fighting against the heads of government who promote national egoisms and who, with these national egoisms, impede the development and deeper integration of the european union. so i hope we can meet here soon and discuss concrete measures and together defeat the council.
mr president of the commission, in your state of the union address you placed the main emphasis on the future economic governance of europe, perhaps also because europe is no longer able to keep pace with the dynamically developing economies of asia and america. the way out of this difficult situation is to look at the measures described in strategy 2020. i don't want to question your ambition to get europe out of its problems, but i see the biggest obstacle to economic growth in europe in a problem that you haven't mentioned at all. it is a complex business environment with a particularly delightful bureaucracy that in the european union effectively stifles creativity and entrepreneurship, qualities that are characteristic of people in europe as well as in the usa, japan, china and india. a simple, transparent legal environment with little bureaucratic burden would certainly provide europe with a new strong impetus to further boost economic growth. please try to think about this, mr barroso.
i would like to thank you very much, mr president, for the explanation of vote on the lechner report, which i consider to be extremely important, and i assume that the explanation of vote on the lechner report is now due when you address me. thank you very much. ladies and gentlemen, very briefly: i consider the lechner report to be extremely important, we discussed it here last night. this report proposes to link business registers or similar registers of legal and natural persons in different member states in order to provide a trustworthy and reliable source of information on an entity to its potential business partners, consumers or creditors, thus achieving transparency and legal certainty in business-to-legal relations. the establishment of a basic set of data and data on each registered entity and thus the interconnection of business registers is a prerequisite for the functioning of the single market. i therefore supported this report also because it proposes to integrate the system of european trade registers into the so-called e-justice project, which can ensure better enforceability of this measure.
in writing. − the european commission attaches great importance to simplifying and making eu legislation more transparent so that it is easily and simply accessible to the citizens of the member states. however, this objective cannot be achieved as long as many provisions, which have been substantially amended, can be found only in scattered form. in some cases, however, the establishment of the regulations in force requires a considerable amount of research. since the council decision on employment within the european union has also been amended several times, it also had to be codified. i think it is important that we can summarise this and similar eu legislation as quickly as possible. that's why i voted for this provision.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the social inclusion of women belonging to ethnic minorities to be a very important and sensitive area in which the member states of the european union should demonstrate their maturity and genuine commitment to promoting the values of tolerance and equality in everyday life. i consider it unacceptable that women from ethnic minorities are subjected to discrimination, social exclusion, stigmatisation and even segregation. i therefore join the call for the commission and in particular the member states, which have full responsibility for social inclusion policy, to ensure full implementation of existing legislation on gender equality and non-discrimination. legal instruments should be complemented by administrative measures but also by awareness campaigns aimed at eliminating stereotypes and providing alternatives to social exclusion and poverty.
mr minister, commissioner, thank you very much for your speeches, but it is quite clear that you have no idea what is happening in roma settlements in the european union and in the member states of the european union. what happened in france is just the tip of the iceberg and sarkozy's decision is not the decision of the first european statesman. similar decisions have been made in other countries in the past. it happened in the uk, it happened in italy, and it will certainly happen in the future. the commission's failure to respond adequately to this is quite obvious, and it is not we socialists who are making this a political issue, but your group, which is not able to accept that such a thing is unacceptable in the european union. commissioner, if we really want to solve the roma problem, we must stop using the empty words and phrases we have been using for years. we need to do a really thorough analysis and we need to deal with this situation in cooperation with the roma, but not just with the roma intelligentsia, who often have quite different ideas of how the roma ethnicity really lives, but directly with the representatives of those settlements that i have spoken about.
countries in eastern europe with large roma minorities are often criticized for not taking enough care of their ethnic roma. however, this general criticism is not followed by any substantive proposals describing possible ways of integrating roma ethnicity into the majority society in a civilized and cultured manner. the ongoing deportation of hundreds of roma from france to their countries of origin suggests that the way of life of immigrant roma families, their value system, their relationship to the majority society are not understood even in a country that has a rich experience in integrating immigrants from practically all over the world. i don't want to judge the french government's decision. but i know it won't solve the roma ethnic problem. it can, however, be the launching mechanism for a new joint process between the european union and the member states to tackle this problem in a comprehensive and intensive manner. the european union should take the lead, however, because individual countries approach this problem with a certain amount of selfishness.
mr president, we have just discussed a very important subject. however, more than 20 of my colleagues did not have the opportunity to speak on this subject. i therefore propose that the president be given the opportunity to amend the programme and extend the debate in the near future so that all our colleagues have the opportunity to take part in a debate of this importance.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the roma minority in europe is indeed critical. the citizens of this ethnic group are often victims of attacks and even purges. i would like to join the criticism of the recent actions of the french government, which has expelled several hundred of these citizens of the union and has been pursuing various violations of the law. but the truth is, we don't know of any other mass evictions of other residents who were accused of the same violations of the law. therefore, what is happening in france can definitely be called ethnic cleansing. my question is, who's next? will they be citizens of other minorities or immigrants? we are getting into a very tight spot in the eu. we have tolerated this in the past in other member states, namely the uk and italy, and here we are again. such actions should be clearly dissociated from and countries that take them should be severely punished. in similar steps, we create two levels of equality, and the roma become the inferior ones. we have to deal with the current situation. my point is, we should invest more in educating this community, because it's the only way. we may not be able to save this generation, but we can help the next.
thank you very much, madam president. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts to strengthen the link between the 2020 strategy and the employment guidelines. i think this is extremely important. i would like to address two questions briefly. one is to increase female employment to 75%. while it may not seem like a huge jump from 60 to 75 percent, it would actually increase women's employment by a quarter. i would like to say in this connection that unless we create the background for this in the public services, this objective is unlikely to be achieved. the other issue i would like to highlight, and the rapporteur has also highlighted, is child poverty. i believe that despite the fact that the council identified this as a priority years ago, not much has really happened, and if we do not monitor this issue closely, if we do not persuade the member states to take it seriously and to set and achieve serious targets in this area, we will be wasting our own future. we can't be so cheap with our own resources.
for the s&d group. according to freedom house's classification, some member countries, such as italy, bulgaria and romania, are only partially free in terms of freedom of the press. it must be said that the union as a whole has not done much in this area. for example, less than a year ago, the european parliament rejected a resolution on the lack of media freedom in italy, calling the issue a national issue. but how can freedom of expression be a national issue when, under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, everyone has the right to freedom of expression and the freedom and pluralism of the media are respected? the charter is a legally binding part of the lisbon treaty, and i believe that it is desirable for the union to act against national interference with freedom of expression and the press, whether it is an attempt to restrict the media under the pretext of combating terrorism or to protect journalists and the anonymity of sources. some harmonisation of legislation in this area will be necessary if the union is to promote freedom of expression and the press effectively. the situation in romania is also alarming at this time, where the security cabinet, under the leadership of the president of romania, adopted a policy document expressing a national strategy in which the media were defined as one of the possible threats to the security of the country. it is important to emphasise that the situation in romania is in total contradiction with the treaty, the copenhagen criteria or the convention on fundamental human rights and freedoms. in our day, it is unacceptable for the executive branch of government to interfere in such a way with freedom of speech and the press. we must clearly reject such a move by romania and call on the romanian government officials to amend their national legislation and bring it into line with the fundamental and fundamental legal documents on which the union is based. let me give you one final example for inspiration. only recently, iceland has passed a very progressive law to protect journalistic sources and to promote investigative journalism. i see no reason why the european union should be put on hold in similar initiatives.
for the efd group. let me start by saying that in today's world, we can no longer equate freedom of speech with freedom of the press or media. media freedom means, rather, respect for the rights of the owners, who determine the content and character of their media and accordingly fill the executive structures, from the editor-in-chief to the graphic designer. they bring content that they judge will interest the recipient and they process it at their discretion. in many cases, the media today have become a kind of lobbying group that deliberately and purposefully seeks to shape public opinion. of course, we cannot expect the so-called free media to automatically fulfil the right of the citizen as a reader, listener or viewer, who is the recipient of their targeted content, to objective information. it is therefore more important than ever, for the consistent exercise of freedom of expression and the unrestricted publication of ideas, to extend as far as possible the freedom of the transmission of raw information, which will make it possible to partially eliminate the selection and manipulation of information by those freely-enterprising media. i think that in the european union today, we no longer have to suffer great anxieties about the misuse of the media by the state authorities themselves. i see a greater risk of possible abuse of media information work in the concentration of media in the hands of powerful interest groups and the media manipulation of public opinion by these groups. i have no illusions about freedom of the press. there is a saying among them: "sing to the man whose bread you eat".
two magic words have taken root in our society. the phrase "political correctness" is closely related to freedom of speech. it's a sign of a certain self-regulation in expressing an opinion. this is not just a problem for journalists, but for politicians, artists, and ultimately, all other citizens. political correctness in our society is not respecting the opinion of another, but sharing the opinion that is the majority. they are a great danger to our democracy and culture. one more note: i am in favor of respecting freedom of speech, but freedom of speech is not the spreading of disinformation, lies and slander, as it often happens. i've had personal experience with this. citizens have a right not only to information, but to information that is true.
for the s&d group. i listened very carefully to your speech and i would really like to appreciate the sensitivity with which you have chosen your words, and perhaps just to clarify for my colleague mr iacolin: we are not talking about the european parliament wanting to introduce and order the national states to introduce registered partnerships. we are talking about tolerance and the fact that most host member states do not recognise marriages or registered partnerships legally entered into by citizens of the same sex. however, this appears to be in breach of the directive on the right to free movement. at first sight, this is a technical and legal problem, since the directive defines a family member, a citizen of the european union, as the spouse or partner with whom the citizen has entered into a registered partnership. the first problem is that the freedom of movement of registered partners is determined by whether the legislation of the host state considers registered partnership to be equivalent to marriage. if not, the directive is not being fully implemented and their basic human rights are being restricted. the second problem is that there is no agreement on whether the term spouse or partner includes same-sex partners. despite the efforts of the european parliament, the commission has not resolved this ambiguity in the directive. and that's where we get to the point. what appears to be a legal-administrative problem is, as you yourself have pointed out, in fact a matter of political will. i would like to believe that the commission will interpret correctly the signal clearly sent by several political groups, because we have already missed the opportunity in the action plan to implement the stockholm programme, or the commission has missed it, but i hope that at the next opportunity it will take the necessary steps to eliminate all the possible ambiguities that currently result in discrimination and failure to fulfil the meaning of european human rights legislation.
madam president, madam commissioner, this debate shows how the argument of non-discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation is combined with the argument of free movement of workers with the sole purpose of forcing the member states to fundamentally change their national traditions in the field of civil law, which governs the definition of the family. national parliaments respect the opinion of their citizens. for 80% of citizens, the family is first and foremost a stable union between a man and a woman. this figure is published by eurostat. but no one talks about that number. if it were openly stated that the vast majority of citizens still approve of the family model based on marriage between a man and a woman, the debate would be different. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
madam president, i would be happy to answer that. this may not be a change in the family code, in the family laws of the states, but it is a change in the civil code. it is the civil law that needs to be changed in the states. some changes are introduced by major laws, others by government regulations. but the government and parliament must respect the views of citizens, even when they adopt legislation which does not deal entirely with family law.
one of the current challenges for european society is to cope with demographic changes that increase pressure on public budgets. i see the way forward in the implementation of progressive and sustainable policies to provide adequate long-term care in a spirit of intergenerational solidarity, eliminating age discrimination and full inclusion in society, even in old age. i also think it is important that, in a spirit of solidarity and appreciation for the selfless sacrifice, carers of the elderly should be granted certain legally enforceable benefits or be paid a remuneration. for this reason, i emphasise the exchange of good practice and experience between member states in this area. and finally, perhaps so much that as a physician, i take the liberty of expressing my strong disagreement with the so-called "no cpr orders" on the grounds of advanced age. it considers such a practice to be a gross violation of the fundamental human right to life.
the authors asked the european commission ten questions. however, intergenerational solidarity was only touched upon in the penultimate one. i'd like to add some more to give you a more comprehensive view of the problem. we were just talking about how the european commission is supposed to influence the member states. why does the european commission not propose that member states should assess the care provided to elderly non-governmental persons by their family members? why is it that if a family member is caring for a relative, he is not financially valued, he is not covered by health and social security and, after the end of this care, he cannot return to his job as a woman after maternity leave? why are men and women who engage in intergenerational solidarity discriminated against in our society? if we tried to eliminate this discrimination in the union, many more people would be happier and more satisfied.
mr president, the directive that we are discussing aims to limit animal tests and improve the conditions of animals used for research. in europe we already have the highest animal welfare standards in the world and this directive will raise those standards even further. that is very commendable. nonetheless, we must bear in mind that human beings and their prosperity mean more than the well-being of animals, and that there is a fundamental difference in dignity between animals and human beings. i appreciate the balance between stricter rules on animal welfare and the use of animals, while still allowing research under strict conditions. i support the ‘three rs’ principle: replace animal tests whenever possible with other methods; reduce the number of animals used to a minimum; and refine standards for breeding, accommodation and care. animal tests will only be allowed when no alternative method is available. at the same time, medical research will still be possible. that will provide a balance between the ethical necessity of the reduction of animal testing and the requirements of modern medical research. here i would like to strongly oppose alternative methods to animal testing that might include tests based on the use of human embryonic stem cells. i am concerned about those member states whose domestic laws do not explicitly exclude from compulsory alternative testing methods those which involve the use of human embryos. when this directive comes into force, member states might be obliged to ensure that these alternative methods are applied, whether or not they are based on stem cells from embryos. i will therefore abstain in the final vote, and call on member states to provide for alternatives other than those involving the destruction of human life.
mr president, commissioner, i ask the council and the commission to ensure that the use of human embryonic or adult cells is prohibited for the protection of animals. the present situation does indeed allow human matter to be used to protect animals during necessary experiments. we always talk about compromise, and the culture of compromise has led us to lose sight of what is ethically acceptable and what is not. but there are ethical issues where no compromise is possible. if the commission and the council cannot guarantee that there will be a ban, this is a clear indication of the way the union treats human beings. i regret that without this guarantee i cannot support the text of the proposed directive.
the ever-increasing number of counterfeit and pirated products in international trade increases the potential to jeopardise the sustainable development of the world economy, causing not only financial losses to the original producers but also interference with the intellectual property rights of authors and those involved in production and production, and posing a threat to consumers and jobs in europe. the idea of a multilateral agreement to combat piracy and counterfeiting can be an effective mechanism to combat such practices, but i join my colleagues who have stressed the need for transparency and for increasing the credibility of these negotiations and agreements. i also believe that it is essential to strike a balance between the rights we are interested in protecting and the rights that are essential in society. the enforcement or protection of the rights of one shall not interfere with the rights and legitimate interests of others.
i have great respect for the work of mrs jeggle, but since neither the council nor the commission has been able to guarantee a ban on the use of human embryonic cells for animal protection, i cannot support the text of the proposed directive. the directive is evidence of our responsibility as humans to other living creatures on earth, but it is also a sad testimony to our disregard for human life. we are prepared to limit the use of monkeys for research to the preservation of the species and in the event of a threat to human life. only if it is shown that no other method is appropriate. but we cannot afford to provide the same level of protection for the human fetus, the unborn, or the genetic information. unfortunately, this report made me feel a little bit like i was on planet of the apes.
thank you, mr. president, but i misunderstood my name for translation. after the financial crisis, the economies of several eu member states are still fragile. therefore, every effort should be made to ensure a sustainable recovery and to strengthen the job-creating potential of european economies. we should also not forget demographic changes, globalisation and the introduction of new technologies. i believe it is very important that the next employment strategy strikes a balance between the immediate problems arising from the crisis and the longer-term challenges. europe's employment policy has a key role to play in overcoming the challenges ahead. i also agree with the rapporteur that quality education, lifelong learning, can be a strategic tool in the fight against unemployment. i can only support this proposal and congratulate the watchers' club on their excellent report.
‘mészáros’ (méh-sah-rosh) ‘alajos mészáros’. it is not easy. thank you very much.
i fully support the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states as adopted by the european parliament. work and employment must be the key outputs of any successful economic policy. at the same time, linking growth and job preservation to the development of a green economy also creates the conditions for preventing climate and environmental problems. the recurrence of natural disasters over the years, especially floods in different parts of europe, suggests that some of the new sustainable jobs can also be created in the field of preventive flood protection. the costs incurred for the maintenance of water flows, the maintenance and supply of public sewerage, drainage channels and catchment folders will certainly be substantially lower than the costs of flood remediation.
several countries of the european union are home to major defence equipment manufacturers. their specific products are also of great interest in many other countries around the world. however, trading in this material is a specific activity which is distinguished from trading in other commodities by security and foreign policy constraints in relation to the assessment of trading entities as well as specific trading cases. the activity can only be carried out on the basis of a permit issued by the state, namely a permit for trade in military equipment, a licence for import, export or inter-community transport of military equipment. the whole process is conducted under very precise rules and is subject to strict control by individual countries, which are obliged to act in accordance with their foreign policy commitments. given the specificity and uniqueness of each specific transaction, i believe that coordination of this activity at council level can only be carried out individually, mainly at a general level, with particular emphasis on assessing the possible specific foreign policy implications.
i am by no means an expert on weapons or anything like that, but i am certainly standing here today as a pacifist and i would like to look at this problem from the perspective of ordinary citizens of the european union. when we imagine that the european union is still producing weapons at the moment, and that there are some 30 wars and countless other conflicts, whether regional or local, all over the world, we should think about producing weapons that are primarily designed to destroy and to kill. and perhaps we should also consider whether we should rather put the money that we spend every year in the budgets of individual states on armaments or on the equipment of individual armies, whether we should not rather somehow transfer it to the field of education, which is really much more necessary in times of economic crisis than any weapons. and i would be very interested if perhaps some of you could answer the question: how many individual member states, how much have they cut their arms budgets in the midst of the economic crisis? and that's something we should all really think about, because i don't think we're setting a good example for the next generation by imagining that shooting, which is actually destruction, is promoted as, say, an olympic sport.
i have to say, i'm surprised at the tone of this discussion. we were here today to talk about our proposals and our views on a bill that is still changing, and where we can recommend to our colleagues in the israeli knesset, who are elected as we are here in the european parliament, what perhaps our good advice or our good experience is in passing this type of law. unfortunately, this debate has turned into a kind of fight by a part of this parliament against israel in general. it should be noted that israel is in a very difficult position and situation and is the only democratic state in the region that is under attack by virtually all of its neighbors. that is the first thing, and for the avoidance of doubt, in the previous term i was vice-chair of the european parliament's delegation with israel for five years. so i have experience, and i have to say very good experience with colleagues from the israeli knesset, and i never felt that when we went there as a visit and we had questions that maybe they were not comfortable with, that they would not want to answer those questions. finally, many of you who are sitting here today in this debate have been or are currently serving with me in this delegation. so let's leave it at that, let's come up with good proposals and i believe that our colleagues in the knesset will embrace these proposals and will have no problem in passing this law in this way.
as has been said many times in today's debate, and will certainly be said again, the jordan river is of immense cultural, ecological, economic and, of course, political and therefore strategic importance. therefore, its use and misuse is unacceptable. since 1964, the flow has been diverted to israel, but also to other countries: jordan, lebanon, syria and other countries that have already been affected here. many of these countries are destroying and polluting the river. conservationists say that the exploitation of jordan has almost completely destroyed its entire ecosystem. it would take decades to rebuild it in its present state. it is estimated that the jordan river is one of the world's 100 most ecologically dangerous places. of course, this fact is also confirmed by the fact that israel and the surrounding arab states are unable to agree on its preservation and protection, and i am therefore convinced that the european union must and must be very active in this process, for example by making financial aid for development projects in the middle east conditional on restoring the lower course of the river.
many reports and statistics demonstrate that free movement of workers is beneficial for the economy and does not have serious undesirable side effects on labour markets. i personally believe that the widest possible freedom of movement, including the possibility of working in another member state, for all persons within the internal borders of the union is a necessary condition for the optimal and homogeneous functioning of the internal market. with the equality of all citizens of the european union in mind, i support the opening of labour markets to labour from all member states, and thus also to eu citizens from romania and bulgaria, and i call on the commission not to proceed to unnecessary prolongation of existing measures relating to these workers. in my view, such a procedure would not be in accordance with the spirit and objectives of the treaty on european union and the functioning of the eu, nor with the legally binding charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which clearly states in article 45 that every citizen of the european union has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states.
the european parliament discussed cloning for food production as early as september 2008. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. the text of the resolution adopted took into account the concerns of many european experts, in particular as regards the health risks associated with the use of cloned animals in the food industry. indeed, cloning brings with it serious problems, in particular the high incidence of poor health and mortality of cloned animals at an early age. a scientific and technical survey by the world organisation for animal health found that only 6% of the cloned embryos were preserved as healthy long-lived clones. this is mainly because the clone has the genetic age of the original from the very beginning. so if the original is a seven-year-old cow, the clone will be a calf whose genes are seven years old from the start. cloning also damages the genome of the individual, which in turn makes the clone more susceptible to disease and parasites. the problems of cloning concern not only animal health and welfare but also, of course, consumer confidence in the food that can come from such production. although the us food and drug administration claims that meat and dairy products from cloned animals, pigs, sheep, cattle and their offspring are in its view as reliable as products made from animals reared in the present way, i do not think it wise, mr commissioner, for commercial reasons alone, to open the market to such products and unreasonably expose the european public to the risk of consequences from the entry of products from cloned animals and their offspring into the food chain.
this morning we had a wide-ranging debate on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, for experiments that may help in the detection and treatment of serious diseases suffered by humans. the majority, the vast majority of colleagues rejected the suffering of animals that would be used for such purposes. it is clear that cloning causes severe suffering to animals. more than 95% of cloning attempts fail. serious congenital diseases, physiological defects, and premature deaths occur. most consumers are against such meat in the food chain. as mrs sommer said, there is one more serious problem. the development of animal reproductive cloning is opening the door to human reproductive cloning. this is not only against natural law, but also against the treaty of lisbon. i ask whether there are any who would like to change the treaty of lisbon on this point now? commissioner, the european commission's position has to be clear.
i congratulate the rapporteur and thank the commissioner for his support. the treaty of lisbon ushered in a new era of european cooperation, including for parliament. our role has been enhanced, but with it have come our responsibilities. it is important to take every opportunity to make our suggestions for improving the quality of legislation. the report highlights the importance of involving smes more effectively in impact assessments. supporting enterprises involves ensuring a reasonable regulatory environment and simple administration. the summaries of impact assessments help parliament's work. the eu legislation is on the right track, with good cooperation between the institutions and national parliaments being a key issue. our february resolution guarantees the european parliament full and equal legislative information.
i would like to begin by acknowledging that both the european commission and the relevant committees of the european parliament, the committee on legal affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs, recognise that the legal environment of the european union is extremely complex, in many cases not even transparent, and that very decisive steps need to be taken to improve and simplify it. i am aware of the difficulty of this task, as the differences between the administrative and judicial systems of the individual member states create very diverse and often incompatible structures. however, this situation should in no way undermine the legal certainty of our citizens or complicate their right to a fair and competent assessment of their problem. in order to better understand the interconnectedness of the european and national legal environments, the european union must make much greater efforts to make the legislative process, as well as the subsequent enforcement of regulations and laws, simple, clear and understandable for citizens in all countries of the european union. another important task will then be to ensure the creation of networks of quality accredited institutions, specialised training of experts ...
i have been following this very important and interesting debate from my office and i would like to thank mrs geringer and you, mr vice-president of the european commission. i think it is very good that the european commission has set up a high-level group to advise the european commission on cutting red tape. each country has its own culture, but the fact that you have chosen as chairman of this group at the highest level a prominent german politician, edmund steuber, is very good, because it is germany that can be an example of reducing bureaucracy in politics, which applies both at national and european level.
december 2010 is an important milestone in the creation of a common market for postal services in the european union countries, which will be open to all postal service providers, thus strengthening competition in the sector. europe has been innovating in this sector since 1992, with the latest directive dating from 2008. i consider this to be a very important step in view of the strong monopolistic organisation of national postal markets in most member states, which results in a constant increase in the prices of postal services with a negative impact in particular on consumers. i fully support the liberalisation and privatisation of the european postal market and the abolition of state monopolies, which will not only lead to lower prices but also to better postal services for the ordinary consumer, with the least possible impact on employment.
today in slovakia we celebrate the day of remembrance of the victims of the holocaust. during the slovak state, more than a hundred thousand jews, roma, homosexuals and disabled people were deported from slovakia to concentration camps. that is why i have supported this resolution today, and i am the rapporteur for it, because i think it is very important that the european parliament shows that we do not want this in europe today, today or in the future. we have survived two great wars in europe and it is high time, just after france has started to deport romanian roma back to the country on a large scale, to show that such things are simply not acceptable to us, and this was helped by the vote for this resolution. i want to thank all the colleagues who supported this resolution.
the key issue for europe is external migration. europe is receiving 900 000 new migrants every year. the roma issue is an internal european problem, with the migration of roma between member states not in the hundreds of thousands but in the thousands. but that doesn't mean it's not a serious problem. i support the european parliament's resolution on the situation of the roma population in europe. i welcome the fact that it defines this problem as a european problem. the effective solution of the roma population problem cannot be approached in isolation. in particular, in countries with a large roma population, european resources and know-how need to be brought into the solution. migration and repatriation of roma should not be made a political agenda. minority rights should not be violated. however, rights and obligations must apply not only to the member states but also to specific minorities.
by adopting the roma resolution, the european parliament and the european commission have, i think, rightly assumed responsibility for the situation of roma in the european union. however, from my own experience in my own country, i would like to point out that in seeking effective solutions to integrate ethnic roma, it will not be enough to simply provide financial aid or material goods to improve their material situation. more importantly, it will teach roma that to maintain a standard of living, much more effort is needed to obtain the best possible education and to maintain a stable job. because only such an educated and socially integrated roma ethnicity will be free of the burden of an unworthy position in our society. it's going to be a tough job, and i hope we can do it.
i did not support the resolution adopted because i believe that it does not contribute to solving the roma issue in europe and at the same time it worsens the political atmosphere between the individual states of the european union. our inability to solve the problems of the roma community can be summed up in one sentence: we know what we don't want, but we don't know what we want. we don't want anyone to be punished for the wrongdoing of another just because they are of the same ethnic group. but we also don't want people to think that the law doesn't apply to them. we do not want to force anyone to give up their culture, but we also do not want to tolerate the violation of the basic principles of coexistence in the name of ethnic identity. the french government knows what it doesn't want. as long as she didn't break any laws, there's nothing to blame her for. and if she did violate them, the courts have to decide. one short note on the meeting in paris this week: i would very much like to see the countries that are expected to provide a positive solution to the roma issue invited to such meetings in the first place.
for the efd group. the fact that sudanese president omar al-bashir is traveling freely in many countries in africa and asia despite the fact that the international criminal court has already issued an international arrest warrant for him on 4 march 2009 for crimes against humanity, namely murder, extermination, deportation, torture and rape, as well as war crimes such as planning attacks on civilians and plundering committed against millions of defenseless civilians in the province of darfur, indicates that the representatives of many african and asian states do not take their international obligations too seriously and that they have a different tolerance for crimes committed against defenseless populations than we have in europe. the positions of the african union in july 2009 and the league of arab states, which refuse to cooperate with the icc on this issue, are clear evidence that many of the representatives of these countries do not see in the actions of sudanese president omar al-bashir any acts for which he should be tried before the icc. in other words, many of them view tyranny and the brutal genocide of millions of civilians as an acceptable way for them to deal, if necessary, with a rebellious population that does not properly respect their rule and therefore allows itself to be discontented. my fellow citizens, i'm not sure it's right for the civilized world to provide such rulers with any financial or material assistance. perhaps it would be appropriate to sit down first with such rulers and forcefully explain to them that the violation of serious international obligations is really incompatible with our financial and material aid to them. and then, if for some reason they don't understand, then similar measures should be taken as are applied to other barbaric regimes. it is not possible, after all, that our citizens, even in these difficult times for us, should rally to the aid of rulers who help to thwart the administration of justice by the international criminal court.
the ceremony to announce a new constitution in modern western style, one of the biggest events in the history of kenya since independence in 1963, will forever be tainted by the visit of sudanese war criminal omar al-bashir. by inviting the man responsible for the massacres of civilians in darfur and accused of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, kenya has shown that new efforts to strengthen freedom, democracy and the rule of law are mere words. i consider kenya's lax attitude towards fulfilling its international obligations to be very worrying and i join the call for kenya to reaffirm its political will and commitment to fulfilling its obligations under the rome statute of the international criminal court.
recent sentences of leading human rights lawyers for exercising their freedom of expression show that syria continues to laxly and often distortly interpret the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which it is a signatory. the persecution, restriction of freedom, arbitrary arrest and disruption of human rights defenders, as well as the denial of the right to a fair trial in syria, are destabilising internally a country that could otherwise demonstrate its potential to promote peace and stability in the region. in my view, the european commission should make the most of syria's interest in concluding an association agreement with the european union to put pressure on syria to commit to ending its persistent human rights violations.
we are talking about readmission agreements, and many of us are concerned with a fundamental question: how can we ensure the protection of the rights and safety of those who have been expelled? experience shows that readmission agreements do not sufficiently reflect this issue. it is commonly assumed that when two states conclude an agreement, they are pursuing the objective set out in the agreement. however, this is not always the case and readmission agreements are a good example of this. they are often concluded by states within a wider framework of cooperation covering other areas that seem to be of greater importance to the partners, such as energy security, the fight against terrorism, police cooperation and trade. readmis agreements are thus only a small part of pragmatic bilateral relations. but let's be honest, ladies and gentlemen, for more developed countries, readmission agreements are also an elegant way to officially get rid of illegal immigrants with the consent of a less developed country of origin, and in return, the latter will be compensated, for example, by entering into a strategic trade partnership. so to speak in substance: the mere consent of a less developed country of origin does not necessarily mean that it has the political will or the legal or institutional capacity to deal with the influx of its citizens, let alone protect human rights. it is crucial for us as meps who are involved in the protection of human rights to know this back-room context of readmission agreements, and so we must insist that human rights and transparency are a priority when concluding readmission agreements.
turkey is one of the countries that has been negotiating its accession to the european union for some time. the negotiations are long and complicated, partly because the cultural traditions of the turkish community are very, very far removed from the civilized values of contemporary europe. a proper trade partnership can help develop cooperation in areas where turkish citizens and turkish companies find common interests with europeans and establish mutually beneficial working or business links. such good relationships can then be used to build better interpersonal relationships and to further develop mutual trust. that is why we must speak openly to our turkish friends about all the problems that concern us europeans as turkey's neighbours and trading partners. for example, they need to be strongly told that anyone who allows counterfeit products to be marketed is a common thief, for he is foolishly stealing from the owners of copyrights, patents, or other intellectual property. they also need to be told that there is no place in the customs union for cleverness and the creation of all kinds of technical or customs barriers against trading partners. i am therefore convinced that our turkish friends still need to be patiently guided to a civilized and correct behaviour in these trade matters.
in writing. the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems is of invaluable value to society. our concept of commitment is to preserve our planet in a way that will provide a livable environment for future generations. unfortunately, the current situation is not encouraging. biodiversity is in drastic decline. worldwide, the current rate of species extinction may be 1,000 times higher than in their natural state. if we do nothing, researchers say, that number could increase tenfold by 2050. ecosystem destruction can also result in the release of significant amounts of greenhouse gases, which can further increase global warming and reduce the earth's ability to capture carbon dioxide. the natura 2000 network, which consists of special areas of conservation (sacs) designated by the member states, is the eu's main tool for the conservation of biodiversity. its main objective is to contribute to biodiversity by protecting natural habitats and wild fauna and flora. however, for this treaty to work effectively, there is an urgent need for legal harmonisation, including uniform and clear measures broken down by member state.
protecting human rights, respecting and showing respect for the differences between people is as important in a democratic society as fighting violence. if a person in a high position in society, who is naturally respected by others, does not accept these principles in his public speech, even making fun of them, he may be promoting or encouraging aggressive behavior in society. so if the prime minister of a member state of the european union is making jokes about hitler and his atrocities in a public meeting and giving them a positive context, then such an action should be publicly condemned, because not condemning such behavior can lead to the general acceptance of such an action by society. i therefore ask silvio berlusconi to consider not only his stupid jokes about hitler, but also his tacky and, i ask, stupid recommendations to young women, which may be either the result of his complete loss of judgment or a manifestation of his lack of decency and respect for women.
the deportations of roma from france are a manifestation of helplessness, as are the decrees that drive the homeless out of the city centers. the label "roma" is just another face of the problem of extreme poverty and social exclusion. those living in conditions of extreme poverty need solidarity and help. mothers with children, the elderly or the sick, isolated communities. people who have found themselves in such a difficult life situation that they can no longer help themselves. it's not just about the money, we have to start acting like a community that cares about each of these people, for the good of each and every one of them. let us therefore look for ways to involve as many volunteers as possible in helping the disadvantaged groups. let's look at how to make it easier and simpler for volunteers to use existing funds. otherwise, we'll just keep going in circles.
the enlargement of the european union remains topical. the expected accession of iceland and croatia to the union will be an encouragement to all those who support the enlargement process and are interested in its continuation. it will certainly provide encouragement to the countries of the western balkans, especially today, in the context of the economic crisis and the growing uncertainty in the region. the recent compromise reached between serbia and the european union states in adopting a un general assembly resolution on the international court of justice's advisory opinion on kosovo's declaration of independence has confirmed the eu's potential to address the region's thorny issues. the european union is committed to supporting the dialogue between serbia and kosovo. it should be borne in mind that the success of this dialogue depends not only on the lasting stability of the region but also on the credibility of the european union and its foreign policy.
the report focuses on formal measures to improve e-commerce, but pays little attention to the specific civilizational and cultural customs of individual countries. in some countries, some pharmaceuticals are over-the-counter, while in others the sale of these pharmaceuticals is carefully regulated. in some countries, soft drugs and various erotic goods are freely available, in others, national authorities define strict restrictions on access to such products. the generous approach to opening up the electronic market therefore also requires the protection of national rules for these specific types of goods, in particular for the protection of minors.
during the past year, many member states have been severely affected by all kinds of natural disasters, which have caused not only serious material damage but also financial, incalculable losses, including human lives. given that natural disasters exceed the capacity of a single country to deal with the damage caused, i reiterate the urgent need to modernise the solidarity fund. in particular, it is intended to increase transparency and adjust the criteria, as well as to allow for a more rapid mobilisation of funds. the revision of the conditions for drawing on the solidarity fund itself should also take into account the regional aspect, so that the regions most in need of financial assistance are not paradoxically excluded from it. as natural elements do not respect the formally drawn borders between states, i would also like to highlight the need to exchange experiences and improve coordination and cooperation, especially in cross-border regions.
investments in health and education generate a general increase in the well-being of people in developing countries and are a prerequisite for sustainable development for all sections of society. i find it very sad that the national budgets of these countries, but also the development and aid budgets of the european union, do not take this fact sufficiently into account and do not allocate even a minimum of 20% of their expenditure to health and basic education. i fully support the call for basic education and public health to be the very basis of development policies, so that there is no reduction in domestic spending or international aid in these areas. in this regard, the commission should monitor the effective use of funds to achieve these objectives in the intended destinations and for the identified, most affected groups of beneficiaries.
the gas safety regulation responds to the problems revealed by the energy and gas crisis at the beginning of last year. the proposal for a regulation prepared by the commission proposed a wide range of measures with the ambitious aim of achieving a higher degree of energy security for the whole of the european union. however, on a number of issues, we had to clarify or improve the original text of the proposal in parliament's committees. parliament had to clarify the role of enterprises in emergency coordination, re-examine the scope for using feedbacks, and redress the proportionality of cost-sharing for new, cross-border infrastructure investments. it specified the conditions for the mechanism for the automatic declaration of a community emergency, linked to the member states' prevention and emergency plans. parliament also proposed to adjust the handling of sensitive commercial information to prevent its misuse. however, despite the best efforts of the rapporteur and parliament's committees, many questions remained unresolved. this is in particular the definition of protected customers and the application of the n-1 infrastructure standard. these issues will still need to be addressed after the adoption of this directive.
i would like to thank my colleague mr vidal-quadras and commissioner oettinger for making this important report possible. this regulation will be particularly welcomed by the countries of central europe, some of which are 100% dependent on russian gas imports. in addition to creating a vulnerable situation, it is also a dangerous political tool. gas is the lowest carbon-emitting fossil fuel and therefore plays a major role in europe's fight against climate change. however, the concept of a union emergency, which is linked to a 10% drop in imports, needs to be reassessed. in reality, this could represent the total imports of an entire eu country, such as slovakia. it would be more appropriate to link the declaration of a union emergency to a specific geographical area. it should be a priority to ensure that gas supplies continue to be provided seamlessly and at an acceptable price even in a crisis situation. i believe that this report can make a major contribution to this.
china is an important economic and trade partner of the european union. i am of course in favour of a closer strategic partnership, but one based on trust and balanced reciprocity. but we must not forget the social climate of this country in order to build good trade relations, to combine research, to take joint action on environmental protection and so forth. china's population is almost a quarter of the world's population, and even though social change in china has led to improvements over the last 20 years, we must not forget the necessary interventions from within our ranks to make china a truly open and democratic country. we're talking about 1.5 billion people who deserve to be guaranteed basic human rights and freedoms. however, it should also be recalled that next year is the year of youth in eu-china relations and this year is the year of volunteering in the european union. i therefore believe that we should also focus on creating as many interconnected projects and support for exchanges as possible, especially for young people, because the young generation is essentially what the future of us all is. if we create conditions for cooperation now, it will be better in the future.
china is undoubtedly an important trading partner of the european union and its member states, and trade relations have deepened in recent years in view of the admirable growth of the chinese economy. it is important for the future relationship between the union and china to develop a genuine partnership based on acceptance but also on shared values. as the world's champion of human rights, the european union must actively promote its human rights agenda and ensure that fundamental human rights and values are respected. i personally believe that concessions must not be made in this area on the grounds that they might distort trade. the european union has a moral obligation to put pressure on the chinese government to make commitments leading to a significant improvement in human rights in the country and, in particular, to adopt without delay and unconditionally a moratorium on the death penalty, which china continues to abuse to eliminate even political opponents.
in the run-up to the forthcoming eu-china summit, it is important that the commission and the council take stock of the nature of the relationship between these two actors from an international political perspective. from a european perspective, china's growing importance is increasingly being seen as a threat rather than an opportunity, and we are only somewhat disappointed to see that we are failing to achieve our original goal of positively influencing china's internal development and its international behaviour. from china's point of view, the european union is seen primarily as an economic and technological power and has no ambition to interfere in the union's activities vis-à-vis the union, but is sensitive to the statements of the representatives of the european union about the direction it should take. the whole tense dynamic of eu-china relations stems from the fact that, in addition to mutual pragmatic, strategic and geopolitical interests, the union is trying to influence china from the position of a normative power. the union therefore needs china not only for its security and economic interests but also for china to support and implement the union's vision of international relations and human rights.
today, e-commerce has become an integral part of the internet, but unfortunately there are still some shortcomings, especially when it comes to cross-border trade. non-uniform national rules can seriously impede the free movement of goods in europe. in 2009, it was found that one in three european consumers had already bought goods electronically, but only 7% had done so in another member state. another finding may make it clear to us that 60% of cross-border purchases fail because the seller can reject the transaction or refuse to deliver. europe boasts 500 million consumers, but unfortunately we don't feel that on the internet. we must do everything we can to create the conditions for a single, functioning electronic market. that's why i supported the report.
the gas crisis between russia and ukraine last winter has had a negative impact on european citizens and the economy, and has shown the extent to which the european union is vulnerable and dependent on foreign supplies. the union should frame its energy policy in a spirit of solidarity, thus ensuring the security of energy supply throughout the eu in line with the new possibilities provided by the lisbon treaty. as regards the resolution of sudden gas supply interruptions, i agree with the rapporteur who has strengthened the provisions in the article on the possibility of declaring a state of emergency in the community for a defined geographical area, in other words in a country, for example, experiencing a crisis with a complete decline in gas supply, even though the decline at eu level does not reach the 10% threshold. i think it is right that a certain community mechanism should also be set up, to be implemented at regional level.
in the european union, 42% of mammals, 43% of birds, 30% of amphibians, 45% of reptiles and 52% of fish are threatened with extinction, with a tenfold loss rate by 2050. unfortunately, not only the citizens of the european union but also the european commission seem to be lacking in awareness of the urgency of the situation. this is evidenced by the lack of commitment to enforcing environmental directives consistently and properly and by the reluctance to initiate infringement proceedings against member states. if we are genuinely concerned about passing on to our children and future generations the environment at least partially as we know it today, we cannot afford to continue to procrastinate, to avoid action. i therefore support the proposed actions which can lead to the prevention of irreversible damage to the environment.
the environment and its biodiversity are currently being challenged by a mode of production and a lifestyle that sees nature as a commodity and a means of satisfying human needs. so while we may be ignoring the ethical and ecological importance of biodiversity, we should at least be consistent in our appreciation of it. in fact, the current price system reflects little or no economic value of nature. to prevent value and economic losses, appropriate legislation is needed and the importance of biodiversity must be promoted among the citizens of the european union. indeed, most citizens no doubt consider biodiversity loss to be a serious problem, but unfortunately do not think that it affects them personally. therefore, citizens cite a lack of knowledge about what can be done as one of the important reasons for their inaction in combating biodiversity loss. i voted for the report for this reason and i agree with the rapporteur that there is an urgent need for an awareness campaign in this area.
the aim of pharmacovigilance is to ensure that patients and subsequently the competent authorities report all, and not just serious adverse reactions, to the eudravigilance database. for the first time, all information on adverse drug reactions is concentrated in one place, providing a valuable research tool. based on this, measures may be taken, such as changing the way the medicine is prescribed, providing better information on how to take the medicine, or even withdrawing the medicine from circulation. i support proposals to encourage informed patients to have all relevant information about the medicine in the package leaflet. the system should not only inform patients but also encourage them to report any adverse reactions. manufacturers must not conceal any undesirable side effects of the product, as was the case for example with hormonal contraceptives. both reports by ms mcavan represent progress for the benefit of all patients in accessing safer medicines in the eu and a legal framework for competent authorities.
the policy for mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas should be comprehensive, integrated and balanced and should include recognition of the differences between areas and the corresponding right to a specific mode of development in the local, regional or national legislative environment: recognition of the disadvantages suffered by the inhabitants, local authorities and entrepreneurs and the definition of specialised activities for the preservation of traditional modes of employment, the promotion of multiannual comprehensive programmes aimed at the valorisation of traditional production capacities, the promotion of the diversification of the economic activities of the population by the development of capacities for tourism, whether as a complement to traditional ways of life, the maintenance and improvement of the availability of technical facilities and services, the measures against the exodus of young people, the preservation of a specific cultural identity and homogeneous values specific to each area and, of course, the protection of ecological and ecological balance. the care of these areas requires a special approach and the most sensitive implementation of the selected measures. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the way forward for these specific european areas.
although it is half past eleven in the evening, we are still here discussing this interesting and important topic, because mountain regions, despite their obvious potential for natural resources and unique fauna and flora, are constantly being left behind and not given enough attention. these areas require specific measures and specifically adapted development strategies to help them overcome their permanent disadvantages and to contribute to the exploitation of their natural potential, the development of road and rail transport infrastructure, and the question of their survival and prosperity. i therefore fully support the creation of a specific european integrated framework for dealing with mountain regions, in line with the principle of territorial cohesion, which is one of the main objectives of the european union, but i stress the need to complement the policy framework with a specific legal dimension linked to the release of... (speaker was interrupted)
i agree that emissions reductions must continue, so if we have rules that can help reduce them, let's try to put those rules into practice. if our friends in the united states do not want to accept our solution, we must have a patient dialogue with them and look for creative solutions that will achieve the desired goal. indeed, the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading system is not such a burden for aviation that it cannot accept it and develop further. it is important to recognise that other modes of transport also have to respond to different constraints related to the need to reduce emissions, therefore we expect that aviation should also adequately bear some of its responsibility for reducing emissions.
i would like to touch on two subjects, the first briefly, because we discussed it here two weeks ago at the sitting of parliament and it concerns the solution of the roma problem. it is paradoxical that even today some colleagues who have never visited a roman settlement and have no idea how life in a roman settlement actually goes, are expressing themselves on this subject, but they are making very strange judgments. i very much appreciate the commission, especially commissioner reding, but also president barrosso, for taking the position they have taken on this issue, and i hope that it will be resolved to the full for the roma. the second theme is particularly concerned with the debate on the introduction of stricter rules for member states' budgets, where, on the one hand, i particularly appreciate the commission's efforts to make the rules not only politically declared but also legally enforceable, so that they apply equally to all the member states of the union. but on the other hand, i must say that i am somewhat disappointed that almost all the attention has been focused on budgetary discipline and that more complex problems have not been discussed. so i hope that in the future, these problems will be addressed in a comprehensive way.
and awareness of adverse drug reactions is not just about how drug manufacturers will behave. it's not just what's on the flyers or what's on the internet. i would like to emphasize the personal contact of the patient with the doctor and the pharmacist. everyday experience shows that there is a group of pharmaceutical products on the market for which information on adverse reactions is often deliberately neglected. the preparations are often freely available in pharmacies and are taken by women without prior instruction. there are few doctors who report that hormonal contraception increases stress hormone levels, causes thromboembolic disease, breast, uterine and liver cancer, central brain injury, difficulty conceiving even after stopping contraception. let's be honest and report all pharmaceutical products equally and truthfully.
i congratulate the rapporteur on the text she has prepared as an update of the two pharmacovigilance directives. an important step is to make good use of what these publications have to offer. only if adverse reaction reporting is coordinated will the concerns of some member states about the system malfunctioning be dispelled. the time lost in information between member states must be kept to a minimum. one more note: statistics show that the elderly and the elderly are more likely to get sick. people who suffer from a natural deterioration of vision. for free, the leaflets will contain all the information, often unnecessary if the patient cannot read it even with the glasses he normally wears because the handwriting is so tiny.
although biocidal products are part of our daily lives as disinfectants and preservatives, they can pose significant risks to humans, animals and the environment if used incorrectly or not authorised enough. in order to protect health and the environment, it is therefore necessary that products from european as well as non-european manufacturers comply with uniform eu standards. it should be emphasised that the benefits of placing these products on the market and using them must outweigh the risks many times over, and the risks that exist should be eliminated as far as possible. i am personally in favour of greater harmonisation of national product recognition procedures within the eu and, above all, greater consumer protection and better consumer information. ensuring clear, concise and intelligible labelling is essential in particular for products that come into contact with lay consumers.
mr president, i welcome this resolution with both hands. the mountainous and sparsely populated regions are rich in geography, nature and quality of life. i am thinking in particular of the slovak regions, and i would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to visit us in the high tatras to experience the beauty of this region. i would like to see the public authorities take action in favour of these regions, beyond the content of the resolution, which should be implemented without further delay. in everyday life, cities or urban communities are the privileged ones. public services are provided in cities and agglomerations, but they are often more economical in small towns or villages in sparsely populated areas. the quality of life in small towns and villages is also important and should not be underestimated.
i am very pleased to have supported this report, which i consider to be very important. due to high population density and international mobility, special attention should be paid to preventing the spread of pathogens and diseases. we must therefore use tools that are effective, but also take care that they do not endanger our environment. we must be extra careful with these materials. biocides are almost indispensable to meeting high health and hygiene standards, so i can say that they are also an integral part of our daily lives. however, i think it is important that we continue to have a dialogue on this regulation in the future, because we have to meet high standards when authorising and placing these products on the market.
i welcome the package of proposals to create a more efficient, integrated and sustainable financial supervisory system within the eu, which aims to address the failures of european financial supervision that were revealed during the recent financial crisis, and we know that we were all surprised. i fully support the proposal for a regulation which has been tabled, establishing a new structure for financial supervision, as previous negative experiences have clearly shown the need for regulation, more effective supervision and also a thorough reform in this area. i believe that by increasing competition by promoting a level playing field and transparency for all, and by ensuring a single regulatory framework, adequate protection for depositors, investors and consumers in the european union can be guaranteed.
i would like to thank the representatives of the commission and the council for their views on the failure to protect human rights and justice in the congo. the situation is really dramatic and drastic and i think it was very well described by my colleague, véronique de keyser, in her speech. however, i would also like to draw attention to the very alarming reports by international ngos. they are currently talking about systematically organized raids on villages to rape local women in the hands of armed units. just over a month ago, more than 150 civilian women were raped in 13 villages. all of this, ladies and gentlemen, came just weeks after the un security council renewed the mandate of its mission in the congo to support the government in protecting civilians from human rights abuses. the paradox of this situation is that sexual violence is being perpetrated by all parties to the conflict, including government units, which is absolutely unacceptable, and i would therefore like to ask once again the representatives of the european institutions to exert all possible diplomatic and other pressure, including through the united nations and its mission in the congo, to prevent such practices. you can be sure that you have the full support of the european parliament in this.
mr president, i can be counted among those in the very long line who sharply condemn the heinous crimes that took place in early august of this year in the democratic republic of congo (drc). every society protects their weak and most vulnerable, so to hear such horrible news must be devastating to every decent human being. the rape of least 179 women and children is truly a crime on a massive scale and must not be repeated ever – certainly not as a weapon of war as was the case in the drc. the eu must assist in bringing all the perpetrators to justice. news of severe punishments has to penetrate every community in the drc and go beyond its borders. indeed, such news must travel globally so that these horrible acts of mass-scale rapes, used as a weapon of war, can be successfully eradicated. we know that developed countries have fewer crimes and that some heinous crimes simply do not exist in them. one way in which the eu can assist is through well-functioning economic partnership agreements in the region. these should help the whole of africa grab their reasonable share of global commerce. at the same time, accelerated development will begin the process of eradication of poverty and, most certainly, that of the type of crime that happened in early august in the drc to at least 179 defenceless victims.
we have spoken many times in the committees of the european parliament and here in strasbourg about what is happening in the congo, and when we describe this situation, it does not fit at all, it does not go together with the name of this republic, the democratic republic of the congo. the rape of women and children is a crime against humanity, and even more so that it is used as a weapon of war. but the situation in congo goes on, men are raped too. and this is not just about the degradation of human dignity. this is also about the destruction of the social relationships that are in the congo. these men can never fit back into society, they have to go and live somewhere in the bush. i would ask the european commission to first analyse our actions and, if necessary, ask the un whether they are effective and whether our approach should be different.
with the removal of the concrete walls and barbed wire fences that separated west berlin from east berlin and divided the european continent into an eastern reservation and a western one, we naively thought that this would be the end of the era of paranoid regimes that were hampered by the fact that free people wanted to communicate freely, explore the world and travel. we know that free travel and the mutual knowledge of people from different parts of the world, civilizations, cultures helps to overcome prejudices, to suppress fears of the unknown and to foster and develop trust between peoples. i don't know what happened to our american friends. they always claimed to protect freedom and democracy, but they must have gone crazy. they've started to build fences on their southern border with mexico, the kind that we europeans only recently managed to tear down. they are introducing new and new administrative and technical barriers for visitors to their country. where is this going, folks? president obama may not even realize it, but on the surface, it looks like the u.s. administration is gradually trying to make the u.s. into a kind of fenced, well-fenced garden, full of necessarily happy people, like kim jong-il's north korea. we want to believe that this is not the case, and therefore we should probably explain to our american friends that the begging money and personal information for spying that they ask for when visiting a country is nothing but a great disgrace to such a great power of freedom and democracy as the united states of america.
good neighbourly relations are the basis for good coexistence between countries. the funds invested in improving relations between peoples, neighbouring states bring about better coexistence, peace and tranquility in the regions and, if well used, economic growth stimulated by improved trust in neighbourly relations and increased cooperation on joint projects. forms of support for crossborder cooperation or european neighbourhood and partnership must be flexible in order to reflect european policy for the area or region concerned. from the application point of view, it is important to simplify as much as possible the process of preparing and implementing individual projects, so that we can objectively evaluate the real benefits of using the invested funds operationally at any stage. while it is not possible to fit the wide range of diverse projects from the baltic to the mediterranean into a universal template, the system must be able to be open to the specific needs of the specific forms of cooperation in the area concerned. we are therefore not afraid to take steps to modernise or improve existing mechanisms, after having made a proper assessment of the experience gained so far. we will all support you in this matter, commissioner.
laogai camps, named after the chinese lao re-education and gai labor, began to be established in china shortly after the communist coup in 1948. some 50 million chinese have been imprisoned in the camps since their inception, and only half of them have returned home. according to the laogai research foundation in washington, d.c., there are now more than 1,700 such camps in china. there are three to five million chinese people imprisoned in these camps. they're usually sent to the camps without a trial, just a police decision. the chinese regime in the camps deliberately deprives prisoners of their human dignity, individuality, and forces their relatives and friends to write letters of rejection and surrender. these letters, as well as the inhuman long interrogations, torture, and 14 hours of hard labor a day, will eventually break the prisoners. prisoners only get 3-4 days off a year. there is no medical care in the camps, no medicine. the poor diet of prisoners working outside is improved by eating grass. camps provide no privacy, and 5 to 15% of prisoners commit suicide in the camp. we should therefore take effective measures to ensure that the products of this slave-driven production do not stain the conscience of european civilization.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european union is based on values and the respect for human rights, which need to be continuously defended and protected worldwide. the right to life lies in the very foundation of them. the world day against the death penalty reminds us that there are still countries in the world that continue in the practice of capital punishment. it is the reason why we need to continue in our efforts and step up the struggle against this practice. robust opposition by the eu against the death penalty puts us in the forefront of this struggle. since the european parliament is the first eu institution to engage in this effort, it is our duty to influence other states in order to reach a universal abolition. for the european people’s party, the fight against the death penalty worldwide is a key priority of our external human rights policy. the eu should continuously raise awareness on this issue and support initiatives which could lead to universal abolition. saying that, i would also like to call on the high representative, the commission and the member states to keep encouraging the countries that have not ratified the second optional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights to do so. those member states that did not ratify protocol 13 to the european convention on human rights should do this as well. i regret to say that belarus is the only country in europe which still applies the death penalty in practice. we should make every effort to change this situation. equally, the eu should constantly raise awareness on the abolition of the death penalty, both in bilateral negotiations and in international fora. in conclusion, the eu has to be an inspiration to the rest of the world. only a few days before the world day against the death penalty seems like the right time to reaffirm this as our position.
in writing. the european union needs to develop a strategy as soon as possible to prevent any environmental disaster like the bp oil spill in the gulf of mexico from happening in the future. the deepwater horizon accident was one of the biggest accidents in recent memory, when it was estimated that, over the entire duration of the spill, approximately 4.4 million barrels of oil were released into the sea. the rescue operation itself was questionable because it was difficult to determine how and what technology to use. meanwhile, oil gushing from the sea's depths has wiped out all life. british environmentalists say that the only thing that should have been done was to keep the oil off the coast. marine biologists have told us that the local burning of oil and the chemicals used to clean up the pollution do more harm to the environment than the oil itself, since this type of oil breaks down relatively quickly. i would like to remind you of the events in hungary recently, when several tons of corrosive red mud surprised the residents of 3 villages in veszprém county, after the breach of the dam of the timber landfill near ajka. i would like to ask the european commission to try to help the victims of the disaster with adequate financial support and also to help clean up the area. thank you, sir.
as a member of the committee on the environment, i am deeply concerned by the results of recent studies which have produced alarming statistics on the loss of biodiversity in the european union. the urgency of this problem requires intensified efforts at the level of the european union and the member states, and i therefore consider it essential that the commission and the member states speak out in unison at the conference to be held in nagano, japan, at the end of october, in order to increase the effectiveness of their procedures and the achievement of measurable, realistic and time-bound objectives. i would also like to stress the need to target information to the private sector on the economic benefits of fighting to protect biodiversity and the return on investment in protecting it. the loss of biodiversity is already reducing the level of well-being of citizens and causing billions of dollars in economic damage, which is expected to reach several trillion by 2050.
for the s&d group. first of all, let me thank my colleague, tanji fajon, for her report. indeed, it can only be agreed that a so-called visa wall has grown up between the european union and some countries of the western balkans over the last two decades. fortunately, we managed to tear some of it down last year when we lifted the visa requirement for citizens of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. however, we must go further and extend the benefits of visa-free travel within the european union to the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, albania and, in the future, perhaps kosovo. first of all, it must be said that the governments of these countries have made really great progress over the last year and have met virtually all the commission's requirements. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be naive and think that the current visa regime will prevent criminals from crossing borders. they knew and they know how to find a way. we're not talking about criminals here today, or even politicians, or businessmen, or entrepreneurs. we're dealing with ordinary people from the balkans. and we're not talking about job security or residency rights. today we are deciding on the fundamental right of the future citizen of the european union to travel freely within the union and to establish social and professional contacts with his or her counterparts in the member states of the european union. thirdly, visa liberalisation will contribute to the stabilisation of the western balkans and strengthen political and economic cooperation, increase public support for the european union and the prospects for european integration, broaden people's horizons and stop anti-european extremist forces. the only objection i have to the report is to kosovo. i agree with mrs fajon that ordinary people in the region should not be prisoners of the current political situation, but at the same time the decision to free the movement of kosovars should be formulated clearly so that their elites do not misinterpret it as a de facto declaration of state recognised by them. at present, every effort should be made to introduce visa-free travel for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and albania as soon as possible. bosnia and herzegovina has made significant progress in recent months after the european union decided in july last year that these countries did not meet the conditions for visa liberalisation. if the benefits are granted to only a few nations, there will always be the risk of destabilising the region, as well as the danger that the political and ethnic mosaic will fragment into even smaller pieces. the governments of these countries have worked hard in recent months to address their shortcomings, catch up and provide the same quality as neighbouring countries. ensuring that the european union will soon grant visa-free travel to both countries, and in particular to bosnia and herzegovina, will reduce the risk of further ethnic and political instability, strengthen political and economic cooperation, increase popular support for the european union and the prospects for european integration, broaden people's horizons and stop anti-european extremist forces.
the proposal a regulation of the european parliament and of the council of the european union will allow citizens of albania or bosnia and herzegovina to travel visa-free throughout the european union. at a time when several islamist organisations are threatening europe with terrorist attacks, i think it's a surprising and positive gesture, perhaps for the entire islamic world. however, beyond that regulation, there is a reference to kosovo which appeared in the explanatory report. according to almost two thirds of the member states of the united nations, kosovo is formally a legitimate part of the republic of serbia, although today it is under a special protectorate of some kind, within the meaning of un security council resolution 1244 and article 2.7 of chapter 1 of the un charter. i therefore think, commissioner, that in the case of kosovo, it is enough to strictly respect international law, not to divide the citizens of the republic of serbia according to residence or ethnic criteria, and thus to allow the inhabitants of the serbian province of kosovo to travel with a passport of the republic of serbia, just like other citizens of serbia, in all the countries of the european union.
madam president, i would like to congratulate bosnia-herzegovina and albania for fulfilling all the benchmarks for a visa-free regime. i would also like to congratulate my distinguished colleague, tanja fajon, for her admirable, dedicated and enthusiastic work. freedom of movement is one of the most important freedoms on which the european union is based. i am glad that we are broadening this principle to include the neighbouring countries of south-east europe. this is an important step and a positive development on their way towards european integration. i have personally seen the positive impact that visa-free travel has had on the citizens of serbia, montenegro and macedonia since last year. having a chance to freely travel to the eu is not only a practical advantage, but it has also, in many cases, taken away psychological barriers and reconnected people. this has also proved that the principle of conditionality used by the european union for visa liberalisation has worked well and brought positive results. yet the eu also needs to keep up its credibility and commitment. it is important to ensure that the implementation of the visa liberalisation regime for albania and bosnia herzegovina is not delayed any longer. not only will this bring good things for the people of these countries, but it will also strengthen the credibility of the european union. finally, in order to bring more stability to the region, the policy of opening the eu to the western balkans should not stop here. i would therefore welcome, in the near future, a strategy and solution for a visa-free regime that could be proposed to kosovo.
the current government in slovakia is proposing bills that weaken the constitutionally guaranteed independence of courts and judges. the government submits to parliament a proposal to amend the constitution to reduce the immunity of judges without a comment procedure and without a professional debate. the slovak authorities have also stated that the supreme court has not been able to provide the necessary legal basis for the implementation of the law on the judiciary. the amendment to the law on the council of the judiciary clearly aims to change the composition of the council of the judiciary before the expiry of its normal term of office. the amendment to the law on judges increases the number of political nominees in the selection boards for the selection and career progression of judges from one to three. this is only part of the story that clearly illustrates the attempt of the current executive and governmental power in slovakia to interfere with the judiciary.
the report by the british socialist mrs mccafferty entitled 'women's access to legal medical care, the problem of unregulated use of conscientious objection' will be voted on tomorrow at the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. this report, which represents a serious interference and threat to the sovereignty of the member states, the principle of subsidiarity and the fundamental right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion in an unprecedented manner, must be strongly condemned. the report focuses in particular on the area of so-called reproductive health care for women and abortion, sterilisation, but also, and i quote, 'pain relief with means of shortening the life of terminally ill patients', which means active euthanasia. this council of europe document even requires member states to oblige a health-care provider to provide the required treatment to which a patient is legally entitled despite his or her conscientious objections. furthermore, it calls for the creation of a register of people who make this reservation and then proposes to persecute them in a certain sense. it is unacceptable to accept such a trend of regulating conscientious objection in europe.
despite some reservations i have about the report, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs de keyser. it has shown, as it has done many times before, that it is well-versed in development policy and that it is not indifferent to the living conditions in certain parts of the world. the standard of health care in sub-saharan africa is pitiful. i am sorry, however, that at least some of my amendments have not been accepted by mrs de keyser. it is false if we speak positively of the final documents from cairo and beijing and when i refer to them, they are not accepted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of women is not compromised. it is regrettable that we do not want to respect the importance of national and regional particularities and the historical, cultural and religious diversity of the countries of sub-saharan africa. it's only going to make the health of the people there worse.
the universal declaration of human rights recognizes health as a basic human right. i personally believe that this right should be seen in close connection with the right to life itself. these rights have a very specific and precarious context in sub-saharan africa, and i would therefore like to highlight the need for a responsible and humane approach by the european union to healthcare. first of all, i would like to remind you that the european union should not promote abortion as a right, because this so-called right is not recognised in any international documents as a so-called fundamental human right. on the contrary, as the protector of human rights in the world, the union should progressively support programmes for the protection of mothers and children within its development policies and promote approaches compatible with the right to life and protection, including of the unborn child. secondly, i would stress again that the eu and the member states do not include in trade agreements provisions on intellectual property rights which prevent the poor in developing countries from accessing essential medicines and which contribute to the high mortality rates in these regions.
we currently spend about one third of our budget on the european union's cohesion policy for the period 2007-13. according to several new proposals, part of this budget should be reoriented after 2013 towards the europe 2020 objectives. however, the representatives of the cities and regions associated with the committee of the regions warn us against a significant reduction in the contribution to regional policy. i think their factual arguments should be taken seriously. for example, we are clear that we will continue to have to support those regions which do not yet reach 75% of the gross domestic product of the european union average. however, the financial resources that will be allocated should be directed primarily towards building basic infrastructure, supporting human resources or employment, increased investment in science, research and innovation and a focus on green growth. we should also seek better links with regional and local structures, while reducing bureaucratic burdens. by pursuing such a prudent, balanced regional policy, we can ultimately also contribute to the success of the new europe 2020 strategy.
ladies and gentlemen, fellow officers, we have spoken a lot today about regional and cohesion policy, but i would like to talk about the role of the european social fund, because it plays a tremendous role, it is also important in cohesion policy, because when large groups break up or are in decline, cohesion policy is also a problem. but the role of the european social fund is also being overvalued in the context of the 2020 strategy, as employability is a key issue. i want to highlight two issues here. one is creating a second chance. for those who lost their jobs as a result of the crisis, which accelerated some of the processes of globalization, such as the massive departure of mass production from europe. for those who cannot bring their acquired skills to the labour market because there is no demand for them, this is a case of so-called skill mismatch. for those who are unemployable because they have no qualifications, for example early school leavers. secondly, the 2020 strategy would increase women's employment by a quarter, but this will only be possible if, with the help of the european social fund, member states can create the necessary backdrop in the area of services, in particular childcare and eldercare. given that these are often small grants, it is likely that the payment rules will need to be more flexible than for projects financed by the large structural funds. what is inevitable is to tighten monitoring and evaluation to make funding more transparent and efficient.
regional development policy is a key element of the economic, social and territorial development of the european union, and its continuous modernisation in response to new trends deserves special attention and must remain a priority for the european union beyond 2013. the rich experience gained from the past must lead to the elimination of repetition of mistakes, to improvements in efficiency and the rapid and high-quality implementation of cohesion policy, as well as to the functioning of the partnership and to increased transparency. i am convinced that cohesion policy implementation must in future be more focused on results, on quality, which requires improving monitoring, evaluating the effectiveness of regional and cohesion policy programmes, so that the funds go to infrastructure, to science and research, to the fight against unemployment, to businesses, to citizens as such, so that regions simply grow and catch up with the best.
with all these strategies and frameworks, let us not forget the essential point: europe is not a project to build a skyscraper. it's not a communist utopia where everyone works and everyone gets what they want. and the european social fund is not a tool to implement such ideas. it's a tool that helps development, but it's first and foremost a tool to help those who can't help themselves. if someone is unable to take care of their job, their housing, their food or their health, they need help, that's solidarity. not the artificial jobs that distort the labour market, not the social and regional equalization that smells of egalitarianism. if we don't want to end up like prince potemkin, let's not use the word "social" more often than the word "responsible". the global financial crisis is a warning to us against unreality and irresponsibility.
i could not support mrs de keyser's report for the simple reason that i do not understand what european policy means in terms of sexual and reproductive health. let me share one personal experience: a distinguished professor, a gynecologist, left his university career and invested both financially and professionally in improving health in sub-saharan africa. he built clinics to operate on women who suffer from complicated births. after a few years, having already helped many women, he asked for european union funding to expand his work. the answer was no, and the reasoning was absurd. he said his projects failed to promote sexual and reproductive health. i don't know what promotes women's sexual and reproductive health more than treating genital and excretory fistulas. it seems logical to me that, according to the european institutions, sexual and reproductive health is only abortion and contraception policy. and those are the reasons why i couldn't support the report.
in writing. − i welcome and fully support the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the aforementioned affected regions. i believe that the whole process from the preparation of the application, through its processing and the final decision of the budgetary authority has been rather cumbersome and complex, in the experience of many countries. for example, in 2009, the average requested contribution from the fund was eur 5 552 700, with 30 applications received from 13 member states covering 17 sectors. however, during the past year, the budgetary authority approved 10 financial contributions from egf support totalling around eur 52 349 000, which represents only 10,5% of the annual maximum amount of the fund available. one of the reasons is, in particular, the lack of experience with the fund's procedures and the long periods of financial uncertainty pending the decision of the budgetary authority. i believe that the simplified assessment and decision-making procedures introduced at the end of 2009 will simplify and speed up the submission of applications for support from the fund, thus bringing effective assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome and fully support the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the aforementioned affected regions. i believe that the whole process from the preparation of the application, through its processing and the final decision of the budgetary authority has been rather cumbersome and complex, in the experience of many countries. for example, in 2009, the average requested contribution from the fund was eur 5 552 700, with 30 applications received from 13 member states covering 17 sectors. however, during the past year, the budgetary authority approved 10 financial contributions from egf support totalling around eur 52 349 000, which represents only 10,5% of the annual maximum amount of the fund available. one of the reasons is, in particular, the lack of experience with the fund's procedures and the long periods of financial uncertainty pending the decision of the budgetary authority. i believe that the simplified assessment and decision-making procedures introduced at the end of 2009 will simplify and speed up the submission of applications for support from the fund, thus bringing effective assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, between 30 july and 4 august 2010, massive human rights violations, sexual violence against children, women and men occurred in the eastern part of congo. this violation of human rights and international law continues to this day and is spreading across the country at an alarming rate. the european union has made a long-term commitment to the entire african great lakes region, which includes the democratic republic of congo. however, our efforts to bring peace and stability to the country have not yet produced tangible results. our resolution today is another call from this parliament to end the attacks on the civilian population in the eastern provinces of the congo and to provide the victims with basic medical, social, humanitarian and legal assistance. every armed conflict has a political solution, but it takes the will to find one. the security and stability of eastern congo thus rests primarily on the shoulders of the congolese government. economic and humanitarian aid are important, but they are not enough. i am glad that this parliament, by the vote of its members, has once again clearly stated that our commitment to the congo includes a clear commitment to defend human rights whenever they are violated in the country. i therefore supported the resolution and i hope that the european commission will find effective mechanisms to implement the recommendations contained in this resolution.
we're talking about a project here today that is unique, we're talking about our joint european foreign service. i must say that each of the actors had their own red lines and yet the rapporteur has managed to produce a compromise acceptable to all, and i believe that the european parliament will support it tomorrow. i'm a little disappointed that most of the speakers only talked about one topic, and that's geographical and gender representation, and very few talked about the philosophy and the idea of this project. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, is losing its geopolitical status, and the common foreign service is the step that can put the european union back among the great powers. i believe, and i have a basic trust in mrs ashton, that she will choose a team that will really represent well not only all 27 member states of the european union, but above all the european union as our common project.
the european external action service is progressively developing its work. today we're discussing the financial security of her operation. in this context, it should be noted, madam high representative of the european union for the common security and foreign policy, that the financial resources for financing the work of all the institutions of the european union are provided by the individual member states of the european union. the european external action service will also ultimately be living off the money of the 27 member states of the european union, and you must be well aware of this, madam high representative of the european union. while we require first and foremost expertise, quality and experience in the selection of diplomats for this service, we cannot completely disregard the principle of balanced geographical representation from each member state. the lack of representation in the european union's major external activities can create a feeling of injustice or blame in the countries concerned. therefore, madam high representative, i ask for a sensitive approach to the selection of diplomats.
some 85 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty and 17% of the eu's 500 million inhabitants lived below the poverty line in 2008. given the multidimensional nature of poverty and social exclusion, their prevention needs to be systematically integrated into other policies in order to enable all citizens of the european union to live in dignity. the fight against poverty requires not only active support for income systems and social protection, but also the creation of decent and sustainable jobs for disadvantaged working groups. i would stress that employment should be widely recognised as the most effective means of protection against poverty and that job creation should therefore be a clear priority for both the european union and the member states. special attention must be paid to the integration of young people, but also older people, into working life.
madam president, allow me to welcome to the diplomatic podium a delegation of young people from the atd fourth world international movement. i congratulate them on all they are doing to fight extreme poverty and i thank them for coming here to the plenary.
in writing. this year is dedicated to the fight against poverty and social exclusion in the european union. let us ask ourselves: what is the eu really doing to fight poverty? today, 80 million people in the eu live below the poverty line, representing 17% of the european population. and the most vulnerable in this group have long been not just the elderly, but especially the young. while overall unemployment in the eu averages 10% for young people, this figure is twice as high - 21% and in some countries, such as spain, it reaches as high as 40%. young people are thus most at risk of poverty. it is therefore important for the further development of the eu to ensure not only minimum recruitment, but also, and above all, job opportunities for young people. it's very difficult for a person who has finished the education process to find employment. we can refer to lifelong learning, but this too has the primary aim of preparing a person for a profession. i therefore appeal to the eu representatives ! take action to improve the conditions of young people and thus raise a healthy community for the future. because young people are the future of the european union and the world !
the labour market has shifted from standard to non-standard forms of employment, and there is therefore a need to prevent the preference for the cheapest and most employer-friendly forms of employment, which become precarious jobs. workers in a vulnerable position in workplaces where even basic health and safety standards are often not met and where there is no protection against discrimination, social protection and collective representation, should be protected from undignified working conditions and abuse. i therefore support the protection of women workers by introducing minimum social standards for employees, ensuring equal access to healthcare and old age pensions, and guaranteeing a fair wage and fair working hours. i believe that member states should prevent ordinary jobs from becoming insecure by means of strict labour controls.
i take this opportunity, in particular, because yesterday the president was not prepared to invite all those who wanted to join the 'catch the eye' debate, and this is a very important topic, because mrs thomsen's report points to the increasingly precarious conditions of women in the labour market and also to the deteriorating social situation. uncertainty in the labour market affects women in general. in particular, in times of global crisis, so-called non-standard work schedules, whether in the service sector or in agriculture, are the first to be hit. as these sectors are predominantly female, they are particularly affected by the redundancies. this is again an area where the alleged logic of the market must be defied and in the name of equality, but also in the name of supporting a population that is able to buy and demand, positive action must be taken, for example by ending contracts without working hours.
i supported the report, albeit with some reservations. it also sheds important light on my report from the previous term, which dealt with the poverty of women in the european union. it's an example of how we take the plight of the jobs at risk seriously. many women and families are asking whether european policy has practical solutions and concrete policies for social problems. politics should not interfere with economics. economic freedom is one of the characteristics of the common market. but if the profit motive leads some companies to require their employees to work in dangerous and uncertain conditions, it is necessary for the legislature to put up barriers against it. it is necessary to finally recognise that women's work in the home is also work with insecure security. the insurance companies have already figured it out, and now it's the politicians' turn. i call on the commission to come forward with proposals to recognise the work of women in the home as a non-monetary investment of national wealth.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − mr president, the lisbon treaty has given the european parliament new powers in the field of international trade agreements and the committee on international trade intends to put these new powers to good use. a flexibility instrument in the banana accompanying measures will help producing countries face new challenges and will benefit eu consumers and the least-developed countries. trade-related assistance, such as epas and aid for trade, will stimulate growth through trade not only with the eu, but also trade within the regions. to conclude, i will mention our focus on the parliamentary dimension of the wto and external business interests in india, asean and china. relations with fast-growing countries through such centres will benefit our economies in general and smes in particular.
i'm the president of a self-governing region in my country. due to the economic crisis, we have 25% less in the region's budget than last year. we cannot therefore be surprised by the voices from the regions about the need to reduce the budget of the european union. but we all know that it is cheaper and more efficient to finance many policies if we do not disperse resources, if we finance them from the common european budget rather than from the budgets of the member states. here are the sources we're looking for. ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon has an impact on the work of some european institutions. already in the negotiations on the 2010 budgetary procedure, we agreed that the reserve under heading 5 would be used as a priority to finance the costs arising from the lisbon treaty. as the chief rapporteur for the 2010 budget of the european union for the other institutions, i asked the council during the trilogue on 30 june to adopt a position on the amending budget, which concerns the implications of the treaty of lisbon for the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. the council has not yet delivered an opinion on this budget. such a practice raises serious problems for the performance of the tasks for which the institutions are responsible. the solution, unfortunately, for the future, could be a revised financial regulation, where the same procedure as for the budget must also apply to amending budgets.
the legal environment in the member states for recovery varies. therefore, experience with the smoothness of payments for goods or services supplied varies across member states. but we have one thing in common: late payments are the biggest problem for small and medium-sized businesses. in my country, there are two groups of investors who often do not meet their invoice due dates. the first group is the public authorities at various levels from municipalities to cities, territorial units to the state. the second group is the large foreign suppliers, who often put small subcontractors, especially in the construction or agricultural sectors, in a difficult situation. in fact, small firms usually do not have the financial reserves to pay their employees for several months without receiving payment from the customer for the work done. let us hope that the new directive will bring the expected improvement and that the withholding of funds for a specific purpose will become a thing of the past in the european union.
anyone who has ever been in business or had anything to do with business knows the complications that can be caused by such a trivial thing as late payments. i appreciate the approach of the rapporteur, with whom i agree in the commission's assessment of the proposal and in its amending opinions. on the other hand, it might be helpful to have more measures in place to provide a positive incentive for traders and to encourage them to avoid payment delays. for example, the use of timely payment codes or the publication of a white list of good payers could be encouraged in the member states of the european union. simply put, it is not only necessary to consider penalties when late payments occur, but also to try to build an informal culture of early payments as a preventive measure.
for the efd group first of all, i would like to express my deepest condolences to our hungarian friends for the great misfortune that befell the inhabitants of the municipalities of kolontár and devečer on monday, october 4, when they were suddenly flooded by a huge wave of chemical sludge from the sewage of a nearby factory. as time has shown, innocent people in the affected communities paid the ultimate price for the inattention of others who were supposed to take care of the operation and safety of the sewage system and thus the safety of the homes. i am glad that among the first to come to volunteer to help the affected citizens were rescue specialists and volunteer firefighters from slovakia. slovaks did not hesitate to leave their homes, their families, immediately to help the unfortunate, the handicapped people of the neighboring country of hungary. i know that the wounds of the disaster will heal in kolontari and devečeri for a long time to come, but we must also consider that there may be more of these neglected, dangerous tanks of chemical and other waste throughout europe. one was even found in my country after a sudden inspection by our ministry of agriculture. it is becoming clear that dumping industrial or mining waste in landfills is not a good solution for society or the environment. we should therefore seriously consider the requirement that any industrial or mining activity be allowed only if it includes in its production or production cycle the immediate and complete disposal or neutralisation of the waste generated. only in this way can we prevent similar tragedies as those that have now befallen the inhabitants of kolontár and devícher.
first of all, i would like to express my sincere condolences to our hungarian friends and my solidarity with the families of the victims, and also my concern for the 150 injured. the toxic sludge that escaped after the dam broke, flooding the surrounding villages and contaminating about 40 square kilometers of land and watercourses flowing into the danube. as many as nine people may have died in this ecological disaster, which became the worst in the history of hungary. the highest priority in my view is to mitigate the consequences of the disaster and consequently to take a responsible approach to revitalizing the river ecosystem, together with preventing possible disasters in the future. the european union can play an important role in this context, because it is not only its right but also its duty to insist on strict adherence to high environmental standards, because i can imagine that similar dangerous rocks are found in other member states.
i think the whole european public was shocked by the ecological disaster that took place in hungary two weeks ago, and i would like to express my deep sympathy and sincere condolences to the families of the victims, as well as to the citizens of the slovak republic. i am very glad that slovak rescuers were among the first to help our hungarian friends. i think that the european union, the hungarian government and the company in question, which has caused the whole ecological disaster, must be involved in the current situation and in the solution. in conclusion, madam president, let me explain very briefly to mrs morvai that my reaction was not caused by the disaster in hungary and that i am not sitting in parliament at 11 o'clock at night to make fun of people who are suffering. my reaction was triggered by a completely stupid statement by your colleague from the hungarian jobbik, an extremist party, who linked this dramatic situation that happened in hungary with the language law in slovakia. madam speaker, i can assure you that the current government, which includes the hungarian party híd, has not changed this language law and this language law is in order. and to link the deaths and disaster in hungary with the language law in slovakia is absolutely incompetent.
i want to make a personal statement about what mrs. morvai said. i have three things to say: firstly, mrs morvai, it is you who are always laughing in this chamber at what other colleagues say. second thing: it's very pathetic of something like the disaster that happened in hungary to squash political capital and compare it to something that is absolutely unrelated. and the third thing is, do you really think that from the people who walk around in guard uniforms in this chamber, is anything they say even relevant?
author according to recent media reports, the french police are using the mins database targeting roma and nomads. ngos lodged a complaint concerning the creation of an illegal and secret database to store personal data relating to racial and ethnic origin and announced that they would appeal to the competent authorities. the french authorities, however, deny the existence of such a database. the minister for immigration also previously announced that the biometric data of the expelled roma are to be stored in the oscar database and in a new database that is being created. it is stated that the netherlands and other countries of the european union also register data on ethnic and racial origin. in this context, the council is discussing the draft conclusions on mobile criminal groups in a very contradictory manner and without informing the european parliament of this initiative. i would therefore like to ask you, commissioner, what will the commission do in view of the evidence of the existence of the mins database in france to verify such information? if the commission finds that the database infringes the principle of non-discrimination, what measures will it take to remedy the situation? will the commission consider initiating infringement proceedings against member states and in view of recent developments in other member states regarding the creation or existence of databases relating to racial or ethnic origin? will the commission launch an investigation to obtain information on such databases and verify their legality in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination? and my final question is: what will the commission do to ensure that member states do not pursue ethnic profiling in their administrative and criminal procedures?
as a natural part of their preventive work, security forces create databases on people involved in illegal activity. the databases shall be established in accordance with national law, only authorised persons shall have access to the data collected and the information collected may only be used in connection with the protection of the company against crime. i believe that, like the security services in other countries, like in france or the netherlands, security analysts are only interested in the information they really need for their work. information on ethnic or racial origin is not included as standard. the possible overwork of the safety components can certainly be examined and, depending on the result, i think it can also be sensibly arranged in a way that is acceptable to the european union.
crisis is a very complex phenomenon, so let me just make a few points for the sake of brevity. first, the public debt criterion is overemphasised in national economies, but other indicators are equally important. at the same time, a certain level of public debt is necessary during a crisis, as governments have to replace private sector defaults with economic activity in the public sector, or public incentives to the private sector, thus slowing down unemployment growth. because, ladies and gentlemen, for all these figures, we forget about the people who didn't cause the crisis, we forget about unemployment and the worsening social situation. i would also like to point out that without europe-wide coordination of economic policies and financial sector regulation, the way out of the crisis will be very difficult. and finally, my final challenge or request. commissioner, i have been calling for several years now for the tax haven situation to be addressed.
we have experienced the most serious social and economic crisis in the history of the european union, with global inequalities, lax financial regulation and the permissive monetary policy of the united states as its main causes. i think the european union was a little late in responding to the consequences of the crisis. the initial reactions of the member states were not consistent. in the future, we must have the appropriate economic governance mechanisms to deal with periods of crisis. for our security, we must ensure that the european union is able to rely on its own strength. in my opinion, the work of the special committee is still needed, since the crisis is not over yet, the situation on the financial markets has not yet stabilised. member states should coordinate and share their fiscal policies. the internal market is one of the key drivers of growth and the eu 2020 strategy should therefore focus on long-term investment and employment. the position of smes, as key drivers of research, innovation and growth, needs to be strengthened.
in writing. - i supported this report, which was preceded by very serious debates, mainly around the filling of posts in the european external action service. in particular, the principle of geographical proportionality was the source of these debates, which, alongside the institutional and gender priorities, was finally only very mildly included in the report. the new member states may not be entirely satisfied, but it is good that a compromise has been reached and we hope that in the future this can be shaped even more equitably. to this end, every effort should be made to ensure that the diplomats nominated by each member state have a uniform and high standard of qualification. however, we are pleased to have taken another important step towards a unified and effective eu foreign policy representation, which is one of the most important elements of our eu policy, alongside the challenges of today and tomorrow.
in writing − in view of the far-reaching demographic changes and ageing of european society, the european union must actively take measures to support parenthood. the extension of the minimum duration of maternity leave will, in my view, take account of the fact that the first months of a child's life are crucial for his or her healthy development and mental balance. i therefore support the full payment of wages during maternity leave, which should have a positive effect on women becoming mothers and not being afraid of the risks of poverty and social exclusion. the right to return to one's place of work or to an equivalent place of work with the same working conditions after birth must also be guaranteed, and the possibility must be given to request a change in working hours or work organisation and, shortly after birth, to refuse overtime work.
in writing. − the adoption of the resolution on the late payment directive was essential and i supported it by voting in favour. the debate this morning also showed how close and felt are the effects of the crisis, which has not spared our member states even recently. we need to change a lot of things for the internal market to work effectively. as part of this, the report correctly envisages a shift to a culture of punctual payment. it will be possible for late payments to have consequences that make late payment unprofitable. the pre-review impact assessment shows that authorities in several member states have poor pay discipline, and i very much hope that today's decision will change this. finally, making life easier for smes may also be a priority in this area. the proposed alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and the awareness of member states' practices offer a solution. the european e-justice portal is a tool for the european parliament and the council to facilitate the exchange of information and best practices between the member states and the union institutions and bodies.
in writing − i welcome the commission's proposal to help tackle the problem of late payments, which are becoming a serious problem in crossborder trade relations in particular, as they undermine legal certainty. in order to discourage the consequences of late payment from delaying payments, it is also necessary to introduce rapid procedures for the recovery of undisputed claims related to late payments as part of the creation of a culture of timely payments. the amendment to the recovery of such claims against businesses and public administrations through a widely available online procedure will be a positive step towards simplifying and speeding up the recovery of such claims. it will benefit in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which suffer most from late payments and their cumbersome recovery.
the european instrument for democracy and human rights makes a significant contribution to the respect and development of human rights and the strengthening of democracy in the world through its budget of eur 1 billion for the period 2007-2013. i am pleased that the package of additional amendments takes account of and reflects the changes resulting from the lisbon treaty by appropriately strengthening parliament's powers of scrutiny in this area. i also consider it to be a substantial contribution to parliament to explicitly provide for the possibility of objecting to a delegated act within two months of the date of notification. strengthening parliament's powers will, in my view, help to make this instrument more flexible, to meet the new requirements laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to better meet the challenges of protecting human rights and democracy in the world.
the commission proposal to amend the regulation on financing cooperation with industrialised countries extends the geographical scope of the instrument for financing development cooperation from the original 17 countries to 46 countries. i am pleased that the european union has decided to extend cooperation under the instrument for financing cooperation with industrialized countries programme to other countries. but i don't understand the motivation for putting some countries on this list. i admire the citizens of the dprk for tolerating and putting up with the bullying of a militant regime for decades, but i do not understand the commission officials who, in the proposal submitted, are indirectly recommending that we help kim jong-il improve the technical basis of his military industry so that he can intimidate and threaten the surrounding countries even more effectively. i am convinced that the modernisation of the dprk army should not be a priority on which the citizens of the european union should rely and that the dprk does not yet appear on the list of countries proposed by the commission in the annex.
ukraine is, in my view, one of our closest potential partners to the european union. ukrainians are much closer to europe in terms of civilization than turks or albanians. the ukrainian people freely chose change because democratic orange political forces have brought the country to poverty, hopelessness and decay. yanukovych has been in opposition for a long time, and his relationship with the current opposition mirrors the orange rulers' attitude towards him. and we have to admit that he may remember the previous period when he was bullied by the orange and the european union smiled on it. if we don't want to lose the ukrainians as our future members, let's be patient and orient ourselves towards economic cooperation, let's build an atmosphere of mutual trust. we must explain to the government that the opposition has its legitimate place in a democratic society, and to the opposition that unless it has the support of the population, it has no right to seek power.
thanks to an open trade policy, our citizens can buy goods made anywhere in the world. however, many times they have no way of knowing where a product was made, where the materials used to make it came from, or what technological processes the manufacturer used to make it. the best possible knowledge of the product purchased by the consumer is a basic prerequisite for a good decision in the choice of goods. the basic information on goods, which has been available to the citizens of the united states since the 1930s, but which is now available to the citizens of china, japan, canada, india, mexico and other countries, is still not available to our european citizens. i think it is therefore high time that the european union adopted a standard which will protect european consumers, regardless of the particular interests of large distribution chains or certain interest groups, and which will oblige suppliers to indicate on imported goods from third countries the necessary information on the origin of these goods. our consumers will thus receive an important source of information for making decisions on the choice of goods, and third country producers who export their goods to other countries will not be burdened in any way, since they have long since indicated the origin of their products to other countries. however, it will also be important to consider a mechanism for the uniform application of penalties and sanctions for infringements of this regulation in all member states, so that producers do not seek access to the union's common european market that is not adequately secured from the point of view of penalties and thus circumvent the obligation laid down. i am convinced that a well-established country of origin labelling of products from third countries can be of great benefit to our european consumers as well as to the right producers.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs muscardini on her approach to this report and on the honest work she has done. the european union is neither first, second or third in its demands to inform its citizens so that they know the origin of the product they buy for their own use or consumption. the united states, canada, japan, india, and many other countries have long granted this right to their citizens. it's all in accordance with world trade organization rules. so the question is, why haven't we reached a compromise yet? we all agree on the need to provide clear information to the consumer citizen. but it is also true that the indication of the country of origin, i.e. 'made in', can also be misleading, because the global approach in the industry means that the final product is composed of parts produced in different countries. perhaps adding other labels such as 'processed' or 'assembled' to the label 'made in' would help to reach a broad consensus. the greatest obstacle would be removed, namely the fear of being inaccurate, incomplete or misleading. in conclusion, i hope that here in the european parliament, which has greater powers under the lisbon treaty in this area, we will find, with mrs muscardini at the head, common solutions that will help our citizens to make better and, above all, freer choices.
the ever-increasing number of counterfeit and pirated products in international trade increases the potential for jeopardising the sustainable development of the world economy, certainly also causing financial losses to the original producers, as well as interference with the intellectual property rights of authors and those involved in production and production, and of course also posing a threat to consumers and job losses in europe. the idea of a multilateral agreement to combat piracy and counterfeiting can be an effective mechanism to combat such practices. however, i join my colleagues in stressing the need for transparency and for increasing the credibility of such negotiations and agreements. i also believe that it is essential to strike a balance between the rights we are interested in protecting and the rights that are essential in society. the exercise of rights or the protection of rights of one shall not interfere with the rights and legitimate interests of others. specifically, i'm referring to the provisions of the treaty that seek to criminalize completely harmless ordinary users, but do not affect the big players. it seems absurd that equipment containing audio and video recordings for individual use could be confiscated at border controls. it's common in our legal tradition that copying for personal use without commercial intent is not punishable. why, commissioner, for example, can't a student make a copy of a book he needs for school? i would stress once again that acceptable copyright protection must be given the green light, but in the current form of the acta agreement we will negotiate with the lobbyists of the american record companies who, in the pursuit of profit, want to terrorize and criminalize a large part of our society, and in particular the citizens of the member states of the european union. the astronomical fines, the excessive controls, the negotiation of the agreement behind closed doors and so on, i consider all of these to be excessive. i would therefore urge the european commission not to succumb to the enormous pressure of the lobbyists and to prepare a sensible and balanced alternative to the current version of acta.
developments in moldova so far show promise of becoming a success story example of a participant in the european union's eastern partnership. the current pro-european government led by the alliance for european integration has presented the citizens of moldova with a clear political perspective, which is important for the future democratic development of the country. however, it is equally true that the domestic political situation has been negatively affected by long-standing disagreements on constitutional reform. after the failed referendum, the upcoming elections should overcome the deadlock at which political negotiations between the parties have stalled. i think the european union should give greater recognition to the important progress made by the current government in developing relations with the union. on monday 25 october, the foreign affairs council will adopt draft conclusions on moldova. they should support the current government's pro-european actions so far and, importantly, they could ask the commission to draw up an action plan on visa liberalisation. this is a big deal for the citizens of moldova. of course, how this all turns out will depend primarily on the outcome of the election. as far as the european parliament is concerned, i think we should be more positive in our approach to moldova. we should show more clearly our support for the pro-european forces in this country, show them that we care about moldova becoming a member of the single european family in the future. convince them that this is the future they want, too.
for the efd group, the solution to compensation for damage caused by the loss of shipping containers at sea is seen in the well-established relationship, the triangle between the owner of the goods being transported, the shipper and the insurance company. the carrier, the shipping company and, in particular, the crew of the carrier vessel shall be responsible for the safety of the goods during transport at sea. the crew is also responsible for securing the cargo before it is dropped or unloaded from the vessel into the sea, and thus for complying with the international regulations in force, for the safe transport of goods in international maritime transport. the first step we should focus on in tackling this problem is, in my view, to carry out a check on compliance with the pre-shipment security rules. that, i think, is the fundamental problem in this case. only then should we be concerned with finding new, additional rules for the transport of goods. only when we know the real starting point and the situation, how the rules are being complied with, can we look for additions to the rules we already have in international transport and, where appropriate, in the european union.
i welcome the commission's proposal to review the european standardisation system in order to correct its shortcomings and to strike the right balance between the european, national and international dimensions. we need a system that contributes to european innovation and sustainable development, enhances the union's competitiveness and strengthens its position in international trade. i would also like to add that although smes are an essential part of the european market, in my view they are not adequately involved in the standardisation system and therefore cannot fully benefit from the benefits of standardisation. improving their representation and participation in the system could be essential in the future. the unifying nature of european standardisation improves the efficiency of the internal market and also highlights the role of the european union as an economic and political partner in the world market.
the european union is the largest source of foreign direct investment in latin america, although trade between the two regions has intensified, trade between the eu and latin america is less dynamic than trade with other regions of the world. the recent conclusion of a free trade area agreement with korea is an example of goodwill, and in the case of the latin american economic grouping mercosur, negotiations have been ongoing since 1999, even with a five-year break. i personally support the process of strengthening and diversifying trade relations with latin america, including the creation of a stronger legal framework, as this opens up a market of almost 600 million consumers to european businesses. for european union traders, it is also important to note that europe shares common values, language, history and culture with latin america.
zimbabwe is a country where powerful rulers have long disrespected the people of their country and have made it clear. we can, of course, protest, object that defenseless people cannot be treated like cattle, thrown out on the street for nothing and left without any help. the settlement of poor people in harare is just a small example of the way robert mugabe and his accomplices rule, sitting like frogs on a spring on the mineral wealth of the country, mining and making rich from this wealth and leaving the people of their country to starve. to expect that by watching and criticizing we can make a difference is, i think, naive. we should be more forceful, people like mugabe only know how to listen to financial consequences or brute force. i think we have the financial options in our hands. consider giving financial and material aid to regimes that behave like the mugabe regime and simply look for ways and sanctions that could pressure such dictators to respect basic, i say, basic human rights.
in cambodia, as in many other lands, the struggle for political power is slipping into a real fight, as it is called, a fight to the death. power structures in such cases eliminate, persecute, imprison their political opponents. this is the case with sam rainsy, who the current rulers naturally want to get rid of because he's a competitor, a risk to them of future political change. surely in this case too we could intervene and ask the cambodian government to stop bullying its political opponent and create space for him to compete in the political struggle like others. given the better contacts we have with cambodia, i think we can be more successful in this case than in harare. so i think in this case it would really be worthwhile to put political pressure on the cambodian government to consider its course and its behavior towards political opponents, to create conditions for free and fair political competition to take place in this country.
i consider the biggest problem in the north caucasus to be the neglect of the most important aspect, respect for the human rights of individuals. such human rights violations destabilise the situation in the region, prolong and exacerbate the conflict, reduce the chances of its resolution and support the foundations for terrorist reactionary groups. ramzan kadyrov, who came to power in chechnya, is not contributing to stability. he has become an absolute ruler of this republic who disregards the laws or abuses them to act in violation of basic human rights. in addition, certain violations by selected persons must not be disclosed to the public or discussed. a sad example of the persecution of human rights defenders is oleg orlov, a member of the group memorial. the situation seems sadly hopeless, which is why the european parliament has a moral obligation to monitor events in the region closely and to regularly insist on the respect of rights that citizens and human rights organisations in the russian federation are still unable to enjoy in their daily lives, despite official rhetoric.
the relations between the european union and the united states of america are those between two great powers, and yet i am often left with the impression that narrow-minded selfishness prevails over pragmatism. but there are very important issues on the table and we must address these important issues together with our partners, which are the united states of america. the november summit will be the first meeting between the us and the eu since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. given that the european union and the united states represent half of the world economy, economic issues will also be of great importance. in times of great crisis, it is necessary to coordinate macroeconomic policies, regulate the financial sector, try to dismantle tax havens and so on. we need to focus on specific problems, and we need to do so not at the expense of each other, or both partners at the expense of the rest of the world, but as befits the two responsible global leaders of the world. in addition to the november eu-us summit, the december meeting of the transatlantic economic council is a platform for responsible and pragmatic policy.
for the efd group at present, the transfer of personal data of our citizens to the united states of america takes place under various agreements. of these, in particular, bilateral agreements and memoranda of understanding concluded between certain member states and the united states of america raise serious concerns about the violation of the data protection rights of european citizens. it is therefore good that the european commission has asked the european council to open negotiations between the european union and the united states of america on the establishment of a new framework agreement on the transfer and processing of personal data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. however, in the negotiations with our american friends, we must make sure that the new framework agreement is balanced and fair to the rights of european union citizens in the field of the protection of their personal data. it would also be good if this new agreement also adjusted the existing bilateral agreements, which are incorrect and which go beyond the rights of our citizens to the protection of personal data.
the european strategy on the provision of personal data on passengers is an important step towards harmonising legislation in this area. the need for consistency arises from several legislative initiatives being taken at the same time. however, it must be said that this strategy has a number of shortcomings, particularly in the area of personal data protection, as has been repeatedly stated here. the commission document published in september was recently criticised by the european data protection supervisor. i agree with his criticism in that it concerns the degree of necessity and legitimacy of requiring a certain type of data. the possibility of using data for profiling and risk estimation should, in my view, be significantly restricted. such manipulation of data needs better justification than the current text and also needs to be better specified to prevent misuse. i'll now give you a few examples that are from other agreements, from the eu-us agreement on passenger data to the us department of homeland security. it contains a controversial comparison of these data with immigrant database data. i don't know, but i don't think this clause is consistent with the intent of the agreement to fight terrorism and serious crime. it will therefore be essential to avoid such controversial mistakes in the formulation of this agreement in the future, and i believe the commission will succeed in doing so, but we certainly cannot consider the current material to be sufficient, especially as regards the protection of personal data.
i believe it is important to establish a systematic framework for the monitoring and supervision of alternative investment funds. the regulation of these funds is part of the wider regulation of the financial sector, which should prevent a repeat of the financial crisis. i support the proposal and stress that this is not to prevent the entry of alternative investment funds from third countries into the european union, but to establish uniform conditions to be met not only by the alternative investment fund but also by the third country in which it is established. since disclosure and control are key elements in achieving the objectives of the directive, it is important that absolute transparency towards supervisors is introduced and in conclusion i would like to congratulate my colleague mr gauzès on his excellent work.
in writing. we can all agree on what the european commission wants - a competitive social market economy. the commission reports contain concrete proposals to strengthen the single market - we are confident that they will be implemented. barnier is sure that we must exploit the untapped potential of the single market. indeed, there are many achievements that have made life easier for us in the union. the changes taking place in the world call for further action. the single market can be made even more uniform. i appreciate the idea that markets should serve both the economy and the citizens of the eu. a separate document deals with citizens' rights and another with economic issues, hopefully precisely to balance these two market poles. the union's role of initiating and coordinating the consolidation of the single market is undeniable. however, good social systems, quality education and competitive jobs are not likely to be achieved without a commitment to implementation by the member states. although some people question the importance of public consultation, i believe that all stakeholders should be given the opportunity to express their views. i also welcome the initiative to hold an annual forum to discuss single market issues. the participants are, by definition, the institutions, the member states, businesses and citizens, i.e. the participants in the single market. the forum will help us to make the single market more a part of our daily lives.
i am pleased that the european commission yesterday confirmed in its strategy for 2010 and 2011 that enlargement policy is the best strategy for the western balkans region. it also confirmed that it would continue to fulfil its commitments to the region, provided that its countries increased their efforts in the integration process. i would like to acknowledge some of the positive steps taken in the past year, such as the abolition of visas for the majority of the region's population, the progress made by montenegro, which was rewarded with a proposal for candidate country status, or the progress made in the european union's negotiations with serbia, which was recommended by the european council. however, challenges remain and will continue to be addressed. these include the start of a dialogue between serbia and kosovo which is expected to bring more stability to the region, the resolution of the name issue for macedonia as soon as possible this process has been taking a really long time, the question of setting a vision or a new approach towards bosnia and herzegovina or even the start of visa liberalisation with kosovo. in all these areas, there is a need for a clear strategy and vision to move the region closer to the european union. it's not just in their interest, it's in ours.
food labelling is a topic that has shown that citizens are watching what europe is doing, what it is negotiating and how much it affects them. i have the good news that the citizens of slovakia were not only interested in the fact that we adopted the report of our colleague renate sommerová in the first reading during the week of 25-27 october, but that it also created such a synergistic effect that the students of the university of nitra, the agri-food industry, the media and the general public were involved in these debates in a massive way, workshops, competitions were organised, young people were involved in the discussion, which was, i would say, further strengthened by the participation of our german colleague, rapporteur renate sommerová, and three slovak meps also took an active part in this process. i just want to show that the european parliament and representatives in direct democracy can also deal with interesting topics and that we cannot always criticise what we are talking about here and that we are not solving problems that are not related to real life. i would also like to commend the work of the european parliament's slovak office, which has very skillfully managed the whole event.
demographic changes are gradually changing the structure of the population and the age pyramid from the ground up. the average fertility rate in the european union is 1.5 children, and is clearly among the lowest in the world. as a result, we can expect to face the pressing problems of an ageing population in european society. i see one reason in the underdeveloped structures that prevent many families from accepting more or fewer members. policies aimed at reconciling parents' work and family life, as well as the provision of tax breaks and other benefits, are a necessary prerequisite for stimulating the increase in births. on the other hand, legal measures to improve the integration of older people into working life must be accompanied by the active elimination of unfair discrimination on grounds of age in practice. i welcome and fully support the so-called active ageing policy, which aims to enable people to remain healthy in old age, to participate in society and to improve the quality of not only their own lives but also that of society as a whole, in a spirit of solidarity between generations.
in writing. the way out of the demographic crisis is through the family, because the weakening of the role of the traditional family has brought us into this crisis. increasing the share of older workers and women in active employment is only a short-term solution. it gives us a little time that we need to use to motivate young people in particular to start a family and raise children. but our short-term strategies must not be in direct conflict with what we want to achieve in the long term. in order to enable mothers of young children to return to work, sufficient pre-school facilities need to be built. but we forget that the key social skills are acquired during the first three years of a child's life; that in crèches a child learns to assert himself by shouting rather than by respecting people; that the patterns of behavior that a child learns during this period will be used for the rest of his life. parental care for a child is not a luxury but a natural standard. a nursery and a nursery are and always will be a compromise. and as with any compromise, if you cross a tolerable line, the consequences will be worse than we can imagine today. are we confident that a generation of children who spend more time with strangers than with their own parents will one day be as willing to take responsibility for the elderly, the sick and the disabled as we are today?
for the efd group the proposed regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 663 of 2009 responds to the european parliament's repeated requests to create a new single-purpose financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. in particular, the support for measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings in the construction sector, which consumes up to 40% of the european union's energy annually, gives this initiative its rationale and meaning. the financial resources to cover the activity of the proposed financial instrument may be obtained by transferring unspent funds from several programmes where the already allocated resources in the planned scale objectively fail to be used up in time. the european energy programme for recovery, with a financial reserve of around eur 150 million, as well as the multiannual programme of the dg for climate, which was created with a similar objective, are examples. therefore, i think it is good to consider pragmatically how we can best use the saved funds to extend the scope of the european energy recovery programme with a new and, it seems, necessary, single-purpose financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable initiatives. the new efficient financial instrument will thus help public authorities at municipal, local and regional level to implement projects in the field of energy saving and the use of renewable energy sources.
i welcome the commission's proposal that our research framework programmes should undergo a simplification process. over time, these programmes have expanded due to good application opportunities, but at the same time, uncertainties in administration and control have increased. we need a new system that has more confidence in applicants and takes into account the simplification of financial and administrative processes, in addition to strengthening scientific and technological evaluation processes. of course, all financial transactions involve a certain degree of risk, but excessive administrative control of such risks only increases the overall cost of the whole process. we must also make our research attractive and accessible to the world's best researchers, european businesses and universities. in this respect too, it is necessary to harmonise rules and procedures as soon as possible, perhaps already during the seventh framework programme, but certainly in preparation for the eighth. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - it is right that we try to learn from the mistakes that led to the global financial crisis. although regulation is necessary in some sectors, i personally prefer transparency and the duty to inform. if banks were obliged to inform their customers about how they handle their money and what that means for them, the crisis could not have happened. regulation restricting the activities of business operators should only be a solution where a potential error cannot be corrected - for example, where human health or life is at stake. so let's be careful when we regulate. the role of public institutions is not to relieve people of responsibility for their decisions, but to ensure that they have the information they need to make decisions. let us remember that the natural support for research and education comes from private sources, from investment funds that lend money to promising business projects, invest in the development of new technologies, all with the awareness and balance of possible risks. if our quest for certainty reduces investors' appetite to seek new opportunities in the eu, we will forever be dependent on inefficient and bureaucratic public investment programmes. our technological backwardness will only get worse. i see the report as a compromise that reflects some of my concerns about the regulation of this sector. that's why i supported her.
in writing. − history teaches us that armed conflicts are the culmination of the inability of the parties involved to talk together about problem issues and to seek compromise solutions. the osce is a forum for finding such solutions. at the same time, the osce is now respected as an independent arbiter in assessing the democratic conduct of elections and the quality of democracy. i therefore support the strengthening of the osce, particularly in relation to the spread of democracy and respect for human rights. the osce monitoring and field missions are an important part of the expansion of the free world. however, from the eu's point of view, there is a question of duplication of some activities. therefore, when we talk about strengthening the osce, we should also consider to what extent the osce can replace the activities of eu missions in individual conflict regions. and while we appreciate the osce's work on human rights, it opens up the debate on the extent to which the tasks of the osce and the council of europe overlap today. the aim of such a discussion should be to achieve greater efficiency in the spending of public funds, which is undoubtedly one of the priorities of our voters in the period of austerity.
in writing. − let's not be fooled by the terminology - the report we adopted is more about finding new sources of labour than about solidarity. the demographic crisis is not something we discovered yesterday. some of us have been pointing it out for years. for years, we've been saying that europe is aging and dying. but now it's at the door, and we're frantically looking for solutions. cold logic offers us several. delaying the retirement of older people, increasing the birth rate, involving more women in the formal labor process, increasing the influx of immigrants and integrating them into our society. we are prepared to do all that, and the report we have before us says all that. but i'm not sure if it will help - and if so, for how long. because we're not addressing the cause, we're addressing the effect. we're acting like pyramid players who see the base of the pyramid starting to stagnate. we're looking for other players to add to this base. but by deliberately giving new meaning to words such as 'solidarity' and 'work-life balance', we are killing real solidarity and depriving children of their parents. i nevertheless voted in favour of the report presented, because i regard it as an important contribution to the fundamental debate on the survival of european civilisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because if we want our support for european research to make sense, we must not burden our leading centres with an intolerable administrative burden. but the text of the resolution and the debate on it have re-confirmed my conviction that public resources should be used to provide basic public services; other activities, including research and entrepreneurship, should be financed from private sources. the role of this parliament should be limited to two areas. the first is to create a basic legislative framework to facilitate this kind of business. if we ask in the resolution today for the simplification of the mechanisms and instruments used in the existing system of public subsidies, we are dealing with the consequence, not the cause of the problem. because the problem is the public funding itself. the second area is respect for eu member states' laws. if the use of human embryos for research purposes is prohibited in certain states, it should not be possible to finance such research from eu common funds. it's like taking money from a convinced non-smoker and subsidizing tobacco farming. i'm all for simplifying research funding. but it seems to me that we should focus on creating a favourable environment for those who want to invest in new technologies and innovation rather than discussing justified costs and accounting procedures.
according to a record of the meeting of the european monetary union's finance ministers at the beginning of september this year, published by the reuters news agency, you, mr president, allegedly said that if you had known that slovakia would not join the voluntary financial assistance for the greek government, you would never have agreed to its admission to the euro area. but as far as i know, that project, which aims to protect large financial institutions from the massive financial losses resulting from greece's failure to pay its obligations, you have declared externally as a voluntary expression of solidarity. perhaps you, mr. president, in your daily handling of billions, have missed the fact that the same amount of money you yourself receive monthly for holding office, nearly a hundred families in my country must live on in a month. if you, mr president, really think that these families living on 600 to 700 euros a month or pensioners living on 300 euros a month should be denied an extra meal a day just so that your colleagues from banks and financial funds can keep their profits, pay out high bonuses and provide even more caviar, then please do not call it solidarity. i know that the situation in europe is very complicated, but slovakia is certainly not the country that you could legitimately criticize.
the efd). in its proposal, the commission proposes to apply a minimum standard vat rate of 15% for a further 15 years until 2015. although i understand the commission's argument that it wants to provide legal certainty for businesses with this directive, i think that the analysis of value added tax needs to be done very intensively. i see this as a result of the fact that many businesses and many cases of tax evasion in cross-border trade show that the vat system is very badly organised in europe. it is not just the problem of the rate itself, it is the problem of the rules which apply in the internal market and in international trade which allows these frauds to be carried out in many cases quite legitimately. so i would like to support, and i think it is also in the interest of our economists and entrepreneurs, that the whole value added tax system be reviewed. i think the 2013 deadline is quite realistic and just to move this issue not to a rate solution but to a rule solution.
commissioner, thank you for your report on the current situation in haiti. the next outbreak in haiti was to be expected. since the beginning of the year, since the earthquake, we've been working a lot, but the work hasn't progressed as fast as we would have liked. we often used the excuse of the situation in haiti before the earthquake. it would certainly help if there was a functioning state in haiti, but there isn't, and it's a long time before there is. it's a long distance run. now we must act urgently, because we risk further and further epidemics and violence. commissioner, we really need to bring the best medical experts to brussels to prepare a strategic plan for haiti. the situation needs to be addressed in terms of security, financial, but above all medical.
i would also like to thank mr fjellner for the report, because we have long needed a proposal that would provide patients with more and better information about the prescription medicines they are prescribed and taking. quality information is very important to help improve health conditions. patients who are well informed are more likely to continue with the treatment they need and to understand better the decisions that are made about their treatment. we need not only to harmonize european legislation, but also to improve public health through proper information, in which pharmaceutical companies also play an important role. however, care should be taken to avoid over-consumption of medicinal products for commercial reasons. today, there are many problems in the member states of the european union in providing information on medicines. in some member states, patients have difficulty accessing even the most basic information on prescribed medicines, creating serious inequalities in healthcare in the european union. in addition to online guidance, there is a need to ensure that guidance is provided through traditional channels. but our goal is not to give the drug companies the right to information, but to give patients the right to information. information must be separated from advertising. i think that communication between the patient and the doctor is also important, because the patient's primary source of information should be the doctor who prescribes the medicine. other channels of information should only be used to supplement the information.
in developed, industrialized countries, the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment is getting shorter and shorter. the rate of replacement of these devices is therefore also accelerating, with the result that waste from electronic and electrical equipment is becoming an increasing environmental burden. it is a type of waste which is complex and very often contains hazardous substances, the disposal of which is not yet satisfactorily completed. therefore, the question of possible substitution of these substances is relevant already at the stage of production of electronic and electrical equipment. according to the information available, we should gradually focus in particular on finding harmless substitutes, halogen flame retardants, or cheap and widespread pvc. however, in the case of pvc in particular, i think that this will have to be balanced very delicately in the search for the right compromise between objective environmental protection requirements and the interests of the manufacturing sector.
a week ago, reports were published about the accession process in the balkan states. it is not fair to set conditions for opening negotiations with candidates for membership of the european union and not to start negotiations once they have been met. why don't we judge macedonia fairly? macedonia is a country of reforms with good results. more than 80 percent of high school graduates in this country go on to university. they start learning english as children of six. the commission's report speaks of progress in the fight against corruption, stable government and political dialogue. macedonia has fulfilled all the copenhagen criteria. it deserves a chance to start negotiating its accession among the member states of the european union. let's talk about the unresolved issues during the negotiation process. otherwise, the credibility of europe is at stake.
steps should be taken in the european union to ensure a balance and a plurality of opinions, to which a balance in the representation of public and private media in the market contributes significantly. in order to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected, the union should contribute to the prevention of, and fight against, fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union, in particular by ensuring that the union's financial interests are protected. i believe that a balanced representation of public and private media, including on the internet, should remain a priority for both national strategies and european media policy in the near future. at the same time, stakeholders should be encouraged to engage in creative cooperation to improve the quality of information provided in the media market and to innovate in the sector. and in conclusion, i would say that media pluralism and media freedom are the foundation of democracy.
i would like to begin by supporting the rapporteur's efforts to open a debate on the media environment in the european parliament. i think it's a very useful theme, especially in the age of digitization, in the age of revolutionary changes in this environment. the media landscape certainly varies from country to country. there are countries where the media landscape is dominated by private media and public media is basically just creating a kind of background. in some places, private media is weaker or is broken, fragmented, so it doesn't create a concentrated pressure or a concentrated media environment, and public media is then able to provide more information and influence public opinion more. in any case, we see that political authorities often interfere in the activities of public media in particular, just as owners interfere in the activities of their private media, and for us, information and information are then greatly influenced. to achieve freedom of the media, real freedom independent of money, whether it's private money or public money, it's necessary to really strive for the freedom of journalists, not to be subjected to some kind of self-control, self-control, which then somehow binds them to loyalty to their employer. this is the biggest problem, i think, that's emerged in the media today, and in the future, we need to change it.
on behalf of the ppe group. the un security council resolution 1325, adopted ten years ago, was clearly a historic step taken by the international community in the wake of the sad experience of the south slavic war. the victims of war are mostly innocent civilians, and in armed conflicts, the civilian population is predominantly female. our experience of armed conflict has shown that rape of women is a common feature of conflict, and it is no coincidence that the geneva convention recognizes that this often exceeds the definition of genocide. the stigma, the aftermath of violence, makes it impossible to live after a conflict, because the physical and mental humiliation leaves a lifelong mark if the victim ever recovers. it is therefore not too much to ask that the prevention of violence against women be an integral part of public security and defence policy and that there be instruments to prevent violence against the civilian population. the un's efforts in this area must not go unnoticed, for in war zones thousands of women are still raped and then displaced by their families, thus becoming doubly victimized. recently, in eastern congo, over 8,000 women were raped in five days, but there are refugee camps, including the ashrafi camp, where women are not safe today. it is also appropriate to request that a greater number of women be deployed in peacekeeping forces, as the presence of women is of paramount importance in this situation. we consider it important that women play a more active role in peace processes. they cannot be allowed to be mere passive actors or mere sufferers. i am glad that the commission has taken serious steps in this area.
for the efd group. united nations security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is one of the last serious documents in which all the states of the world declare their respect and reverence for the fairer sex. each of the provisions of the resolution has its own profound meaning and responds to the problems that life often brings in relations between men and women, when, especially in crisis situations, women and girls are often the victims of arbitrary, savage violence and injustice. the advanced civilized countries are committed to their obligations under un security council resolution 1325 and are endeavouring, by various means, to create the widest possible scope for their application in national and international institutions involved in conflict resolution and the organisation of peace processes. however, serious problems with respect for the human rights of women and girls persist in many countries of the developing world, particularly in central africa and parts of asia. the manners of barbaric militaristic regimes are based on a different value scale than that recognized by the civilized world, and the human dignity of civilians, women and children does not say much to hordes of killers. i think this is an area that we should be focusing on as soon as possible and focusing more attention on. therefore, measures must also be taken in the european union's policy to exert greater and more intense pressure on these regimes which do not respect the fundamental human rights of their citizens and residents.
i too would like to stress the historic importance of security council resolution 1325 for peace and security policy. it was the first time the un had emphasised the importance of the protection and full engagement of women in peace-making, peacekeeping and conflict prevention. it must be said that much effort has been put into this goal over the past ten years. but the abuse of women often remains a major feature of conflict. moreover, there has been an alarming increase in the frequency and systematic violence against women during and after conflicts. i will not go into specific numbers, but it is certainly worth mentioning the terrible things that have happened in the democratic republic of congo, in darfur, in rwanda, in liberia, in sierra leone, and in bosnia. i personally met and spoke with women who were victims of violence during the war in the former yugoslavia. their memories are terrible. they were raped, tortured, humiliated. many were ostracized even after the conflict ended. the end of conflict does not guarantee the end of violence against women. we should always keep that in mind. the protection and empowerment of women in peace and security is a key objective of resolution 1325. unfortunately, in many cases, this has not yet happened. i believe there's a real chance we can change that. but we need the political will of all to create the conditions for that to happen. in doing so, i also see the potential for a positive contribution from the high representative, baroness ashton, and the european external action service, which could significantly strengthen the role of the european union in the implementation of this important resolution.
we are commemorating the 10th anniversary of united nations resolution 1325, and almost daily there are further anniversaries of other resolutions and declarations that seek to help women. but i doubt that we are sufficiently monitoring their implementation. new and new documents are being produced, but the situation of women is improving only very slowly. it is our duty to work for the respect and protection of the rights of all women to achieve their full integration into society, regardless of their status, origin and position. their role begins in the family, not only because they are indispensable in educating their children to respect human dignity for all, but also because they are women who, thinking of the threat to their own families, are involved in preventing and resolving conflicts in war. but until women feel safe in their families, in their nations, there can be no peace, not just in countries where there is no war.
i abstained because i am not convinced that the subsidiarity of the member states is respected in the area of family law. the european union must fully respect the division of competences between the union and the member states when it legislates. i therefore fully support an approach that takes due account of the different legal approaches and constitutional traditions arising from the specific circumstances of each country, especially in areas that concern the fundamental values of a given society, such as those expressed in family law legislation. the union's approach should aim to better understand and meet the needs of all citizens in all countries, rather than creating a one-colour society. it is therefore essential not to go beyond the necessary framework of measures that could jeopardise the fundamental values of the member states in specific areas of civil and family law.
in writing. - coal mining in europe is not efficient and needs to be subsidised. but equally, if not more, inefficient are the so-called alternative energy sources. so a coal-fired power plant, a solar plant, a wind plant, all have one thing in common. the electricity they produce is simply too expensive. the state therefore encourages coal mining or buys the electricity produced at a price higher than that paid by the final consumer. every way of generating electricity has its pros and cons. but experience has taught us that it is not good to rely on just one source of energy. if europe's energy security is our priority, then it would be a mistake to give up one of the possible sources of energy. the state should not support failing businesses with taxpayers' money. but not all mines that are not able to survive on the market today without subsidies are necessarily doomed to extinction. some of them can become competitive if they are given time to transform. rapkay's report is about letting them do it. i come from the prievidza region with a strong mining tradition. i know how many families would be in social distress if their fathers lost their jobs in the mines. i also voted on their behalf today for a report which creates a space for the preservation of thousands of jobs in the traditional slovak mining region.
in writing. − what do we want to improve at the level of european judicial cooperation that we know today? the adopted document highlights the main elements of the commission's plans. it underlines what we, as citizens, have to do in the coming period. as a politician and a teacher, i agree that communication between higher education institutions needs to be improved in order to introduce the young generation of lawyers to the diversity of european legal culture during their university years. member states are concerned with improving the area of justice. the energy invested in education affects the efficiency of the justice system. we must ensure that the resources for training are available everywhere. the most suitable place for the removal of obstacles to cross-border cooperation is for professionals with foreign experience and language skills. knowledge can increase confidence in member states' systems. we need to get students interested in foreign exchange programs. it is essential to support forums aimed at developing dialogue at the professional level. there should be a space for representatives of the legal professions to express their views on an area of freedom, security and justice on an ongoing basis. they're the ones who are facing the problems in practice. we'll ask them about the benefits of the measures taken so far. as representatives of the interests of citizens, let us work to ensure that the eu does not appear in their minds as a legislative maze. legislation for consumers and businesses should be about them and for them.
in writing. - it is a pity that this parliament has decided to simply withdraw the debate on the stockholm programme from the agenda. where there is no room for debate, there is no room for questions. and if we do not allow a critical exchange of views on the integration process, the concerns of many citizens in the member states will only be reinforced. one of these concerns is that it will lead to the opening of civil marriage. many family associations in all member states point out that the stockholm programme mechanism can thus be abused by same-sex couples. this question can be dealt with not only in the context of civil law procedures, international private law, but also through the complex family law procedure under article 81 (3) tfeu. if the stockholm programme is used for this purpose, it will be an indirect change in legislation, precisely what the union has long been fighting against. therefore, both the commission and the council must publicly explain that social and legal mechanisms and the stockholm protocol will never lead to the opening up of the marriage status to same-sex couples. if we want to build a strong union, it must not be at the expense of limiting the powers of the member states and the common good. the ecr group tabled amendments which emphasise the member states' claim to competence. if these proposals are not adopted, i shall vote against the report submitted.
i believe that in these turbulent times we are living, it was not easy for the commission to draw up such an ambitious plan, and so let me begin by congratulating you. i do have a few comments, though. the keyword of the programme is post-crisis economic recovery and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. if you'll excuse me, mr. vice president, i'm a little skeptical about that. first of all, i think it's a little premature to talk about recovery, because, even if there are some signs, there's no guarantee that recovery is happening, and i think we can't afford to make any more mistakes. moreover, i believe that the commission is supporting policies in many countries that make recovery rather unlikely. examples include latvia, greece and, more recently, ireland. while it is true that the debt burden is often too high, restrictive economic policies will make it more likely that the recovery in growth will not occur and that the real debt burden will increase. i also feel the same way about the attempt to strengthen budgetary discipline by introducing stricter pan-european rules. it is the crisis that is the time when these measures are counterproductive. moreover, budgetary discipline does not address structural imbalances in the european union's economies, such as trade surpluses and deficits. but i think this is for a longer discussion. but what i strongly support in the european commission's efforts is the regulation of the financial sector. i am not entirely sure that the measures proposed and taken are sufficient, but in principle it is clearly a step in the right direction. the effort to achieve smart and sustainable growth is also commendable, and i understand that the programme cannot go into all the details, but we need much more ambitious formulation and action in the fight against poverty and for social inclusion at the moment.
the proposed work programme is ambitious. it contains areas that will help deliver the 2020 strategy. there's a lot of things that are said, but i'd rather ask what's not said, or left unsaid. in particular: how does the commission intend to prioritise the accelerated adoption of urgent proposals? i insist on an expedited admission. we all know how long european legislation takes. and secondly, i would like to ask you: at the end of the programme, the emphasis is on the commission's cooperation with the european parliament and the council. my question is: do you think it is possible to cooperate constructively with the council without mrs merkel and mr sarkozy being the only ones to set the tone?
when we talk about unemployment, we should certainly mention very loudly the youth unemployment rate, which is twice and in some countries four times the european average. i welcome the agenda presented, much more than strategy. concrete measures to promote employment and effective control are needed. there is certainly a need to increase cooperation between national ministries of labour and education and to develop a long-term strategy for what the labour market will demand from potential applicants, and not just what it demands now. education and training is a long-term process, and so we need to know what we will need in ten years' time, and not just now, to empower the next generation. the commissioner mentioned better education, investing in people. i agree with her completely on this. only by investing more in the education of our young people can we create a competitive generation and thus a better european union. i therefore appeal to the member states of the european union: let us not cut budgets for education and youth, but let us strengthen them even more in these difficult times! every penny we spend on education will be returned to us a hundredfold in a happy and strong future generation.
over the years, the european agricultural policy has developed into a complex mechanism of subsidy rules and controls that has taken the evaluation of the efficiency of agricultural production from the field to the offices of brussels officials. the efficiency and usefulness of the farm's operations are increasingly dependent on the support mechanisms and the rules for their provision, which are being developed on the premises of the european commission. the distortion of the agricultural market has been further exacerbated by the mechanism of subsidies for new accession countries, whose support is in many cases less than half that of the original member states. it is therefore certainly worthwhile to examine in depth the system of rules and mechanisms currently in use in the european union and to try to introduce simpler, more modern and fairer rules for our farmers. i am sure, commissioner, that the european parliament will be happy to assist you in this work.
the european council meeting at the end of october took place in a difficult situation. all countries are now adjusting their economic policies to get out of a bad economic situation and into at least some economic growth as soon as possible. after greece and ireland, other euro area countries face a risk of insolvency. it must therefore be clear to us that, in such a complex situation, it is very difficult for heads of government to take decisions that would give up their ability to shape and regulate the economic governance of their states and transfer some of the competences of economic governance to the level of the european institution. we must therefore discuss our common vision of how to bring europe out of its present difficult situation as safely and as quickly as possible, and we should not underestimate the efforts of individual government representatives to address their country's problems with their own competences and abilities, so as not to come into conflict with europe's interests.
the european council meeting was not a test of how european leaders are coping with the challenges posed by the economic recession. as i have already indicated on several occasions, it will not be enough to focus on budgets alone. the structural imbalances that are exacerbating the crisis are not just about debt. unless a mechanism is adopted which is able to address the other aspects, there are serious doubts about its success. another topic was the debate on whether budget shortfalls caused by pension reforms should be counted in the deficit. on the one hand we are already talking about tightening the rules and their systematicity, but on the other hand we are dealing with exceptions. even if pension reform were as necessary as it is presented, which i personally don't think it is, there are other examples of beneficial programs. who will then determine what is more important, what less, and why? i believe that when we talk about systemic solutions, we cannot simultaneously open the discussion about exceptions.
in writing. the stability and growth pact has included sanctions in the past, but there has never been the political will to impose them, requiring the approval of two-thirds of the finance ministers. i'm skeptical about the countermechanism. the president of the council, mr rompuy, is not to change article 125 of the lisbon treaty, which states that each country bears its own liabilities. on the other hand, it should consider extending article 122, which talks about solidarity - it enshrines mutual aid in the event of natural disasters or energy crises. amending this article may negate the fundamental principle of the eu's functioning, solidarity, and may lead to disunity. the crisis mechanism, if it were to operate under article 122 on the granting of funds to individual states, would be decided by the council on a proposal from the commission and the european parliament would only be informed. the irresponsibility of individual states threatens to make those responsible pay.
i voted in favour of mr fjellner's report, which talks about information for patients not only on leaflets and on individual packaging of medicines, but also looks at the behaviour of pharmaceutical companies. until recently, many of these companies advertised their own products in addition to the information about the drug. i would say they were biased in influencing the patient and his consciousness to notice a particular product. i'm all for the patient having the best, most up-to-date information that's approved for, say, a new drug, and i think we've made a significant contribution to that. of course, the internet, a modern means of communication, must also provide this quality information, and it should be in the mother tongue. i am glad that by adopting this report we have actually reduced the disparities between the countries of the european union which are even less developed in this area, and i am glad that the doctor-patient relationship has not been affected in any way. that's the primary source of information.
i believe that special attention in the area of intellectual property rights protection requires the guarantee of the protection of the right to health, which is closely linked to the right to life itself. i am strongly opposed to the fact that under the pretext of high intellectual property protection, which in some cases seems excessive, access to essential medicines is actually denied to broad sections of the population, especially in developing countries. i therefore call on the commission to promote the fundamental principles of public health protection and access to medicines during negotiations on technical matters related to the trade agreement in the fight against counterfeiting.
the experience of recent years, when the interruption of gas supplies from ukraine and widespread power cuts in several european union countries have shown us that our energy system does not have sufficient reserves to overcome crisis situations, has shown that the extension will require large-scale investments and therefore will require a coordinated and thoughtful approach when deciding on its changes in order to use the invested resources as efficiently as possible. the report presented responds to this in a very comprehensive way, dealing with virtually all aspects that will have to be taken into account in solving energy problems. from legislative and competence approaches to trade rules, network modernisation and how they are financed. in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and promoting development and research, the need for greater energy efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources is also not forgotten. in its complexity and balance, i think this report is a good starting point for further work to improve the european energy system.
i would also like to thank mrs kolarska-bobińska and commissioner oettinger for their work. this is very important work. the lisbon treaty will build the eu's energy strategy on four new pillars in the future. these are the single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the interconnection of european energy networks. when we want to formulate our new energy strategy, we have to keep in mind some challenges. our fossil fuel reserves are dwindling, but with new sources of raw materials, research and development, we can increase the reserves that can be exploited. the european union's energy dependence is growing along with its population. by 2030, europe will have to source 65% of its energy imports from outside the eu. in the natural gas supply, this figure can reach 80%. we need to seek further diversification of transport routes and sources of supply. the reconstruction of existing power plants could also be key. it is not enough to spend huge sums of money to dismantle old power plants, but they must also be maintained. member states should review their overall approach to nuclear energy. we must continue to work on the development of nuclear energy, otherwise we will not be able to meet our climate change objectives. in this area, we are also careful not to jeopardize our industrial and commercial competitiveness by over-ambitious plans. in this sense, we have a balanced report with realistic assumptions, and i am very much in favour of it.
it's been two decades now that international forums have been talking about climate change. despite the increased awareness of this truly global problem, politically, we have wasted these two decades, so to speak. the kyoto protocol expires in 2012, and the fiasco of last year's climate conference in copenhagen offers no hope of an early change for the better. the october climate talks have only confirmed the rift between the so-called developed world and the so-called developing world, and so there is a lot at stake in cancún. if we want the cancun conference to be successful, it requires a fundamental change in the attitudes of the rich countries. first, domestic emissions must be significantly reduced. carbon offsetting is certainly not the answer in this regard. if rich countries buy concessions from poor countries to continue producing emissions, it doesn't help the climate.
in writing. the un climate change conference is being held in mexico in december, and the copenhagen summit is expected to be even more important. although copenhagen is internationally regarded as a step forward, it is still a world record. and the 2012 kyoto convention is very important, so it's very important that we have a global climate, and everyone has a clear goal. it is not enough to have a relative consensus within the eu. fontos, that in the united states and other asian countries, hatalmak is a common target of the investigation. the cancúnban and the number and percentage of agreements and specific objectives and commitments concerning all the countries and territories covered by the convention, in preparation for the implementation of the kyoto convention 2011 in south africa. the commission shall be informed of such matters, and shall provide a monitoring and control mechanism. the european union and the european union's position must be followed by example.
in writing. at the outset, it should be noted that the cancun climate change conference is another great opportunity to do something for future generations and at least partially correct what we failed to do in copenhagen. it's no longer possible to deny that the world is changing. examples include planting vineyards in mountainous areas and growing crops in places where they never grew, as well as frequent natural disasters such as floods. we must adopt a responsible and long-term solution. i'm no expert on the environment, and theories are splitting, but i believe something needs to be done. let's stop discussing whether climate change is real or not, and talk about how to fight it. let's stop debating whether climate change can be stopped, and instead do something about it. the european union must take the lead in these negotiations, and so must all its member states. we have a responsibility for the future of the entire world. we will strongly support emissions reductions, involve regions, cities and rural areas in environmental protection, strive to create more green jobs and support investment in research and innovation. i believe that we are the ones who can still save this planet. we just have to stand together, united and strong!
for the s&d group. the only intercontinental partnership the european union has established is the strategic partnership with africa. however, after reading the text published by the commission ahead of the forthcoming summit, i could not help feeling that it sounded too positive. it's like it was written by someone with rose-colored glasses. but the fact is, it's a long way from pink. and if we want to overcome problems, we need to talk about them openly. on the african side, disintegration is still prevalent. the political mandate of the african union is weak and the african continent is still fragmented, both economically and politically. the economic partnership agreements between the european union and african countries are not working and the african regional economic communities are making the situation even more confusing. so it's hard to talk about africa as a whole in a nutshell. on the other hand, the union and its member states do not have coherent policies towards africa and often take a beneficial or paternalistic approach to the partnership. it would therefore be good if the commission took these aspects into account in its report.
we all know that the people of many african countries are now dependent on humanitarian aid from developed countries. but in the future, our aid should be directed more towards stimulating the economic development of populated areas, so that the citizens of african countries can themselves, by their own efforts, gradually change the character of their countries. both raw materials and human potential give african countries the opportunity, with the sensitive assistance of the industrialised countries, to break out of backwardness and poverty. of course, to make it meaningful to bring jobs, know-how and more significant investments to african countries, it is necessary to achieve better political stability, a standard legal environment, acceptable rules for entrepreneurs who will be willing to develop their activities in african countries in an honest way. a major obstacle to such an environment is, for the time being, the rampant authoritarian regimes whose behavior discourages all decent people from any cooperation. this is, i think, the problem that is currently the biggest chokepoint for the development of the african continent. this is a problem that needs to be addressed.
the possibilities offered by the adoption of the treaty of lisbon allow the long-awaited balance to be struck between commercial law and human rights. i am deeply convinced that in order to strengthen its credibility, but also its integrity, the european union must actively use these opportunities and start acting consistently in the field of human rights in its internal and external policies. i would stress the need for the commission to conclude agreements containing clauses on democracy, human rights and respect for social, health and environmental standards, while ensuring effective monitoring of compliance with and application of those standards in practice. in agreements on the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights, particular attention is required to guarantee the protection of the right to health, which is closely linked to the right to life itself, and i congratulate mrs saïfi on a very bold and consistent text.
for the s&d group. i would like to thank all three colleagues for the reports we are discussing here today in the joint debate, but if you will allow me, i would like to comment in particular on the report by mrs lichtenberger, because i consider it to be extremely precise and i agree with it in many respects. so if you'll excuse me, mr. vice president, i'm going to be a little more critical today. in summary, the commission does not communicate fully enough to citizens and to parliament about how it monitors the application of community law. the active role of the citizens of the european union is clearly enshrined in the treaty on european union, for example in the case of the european citizens' initiative. and i am very pleased, mr vice-president, that it is you who are here with us today for this debate, because i know that you are not only personally competent but also extremely committed to the european citizens' initiative. however, the annual reports of the european commission on the control of the application of the law in the european union in their current form provide citizens and parliament with a lack of information on the state of play. the commission has so far been too fixated on transposing european law into national law, but has not paid as much attention to its actual application. a mere reference to a formal procedure in the case of a member state which has not yet transposed european union law at national level does not tell us much, nor does it tell the citizens. we must and want to know more about cases where the commission is investigating inaccurate or totally erroneous transpositions. only when we are fully informed about such cases can we talk about rigorous monitoring of the application of european union law. as we all know, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has certain duties and powers vis-à-vis the commission. one of these is also the control or evaluation of the activity. we in the european parliament have a genuine interest in meaningfully assessing the commission's progress in fulfilling its role as guardian of the treaties and of the law of the european union. however, we do not have sufficient access to the data on which the commission is based to deal with infringements. and this, mr. vice president, is not a new request. as early as february, in our resolution on the revised framework agreement between the european parliament and the european commission, we asked the commission to, and i quote now: 'provide the european parliament with summary information on all infringement proceedings following a formal request, if the european parliament so requests' (end of quote). i would really like to make a strong appeal to the commission to provide us, and through us, the citizens of the european union, with this data. in conclusion, mr vice-president, i have already said on several occasions in my speeches that the european parliament has a genuine interest in helping the commission and even supporting it against the council. we now ask you to make the commission, in return, provide the european parliament with the information we are asking for, not only for ourselves but also for the citizens of the member states of the european union.
i would like to begin by expressing the view that the commission's annual reports on monitoring the application of european union law have certain reservations, since in their current form they do not provide the citizens or the institutions concerned with the necessary information on the actual state of application of european union law. in particular, where the commission is acting on the basis of infringements for incorrect transposition of european union law, it would be good in the future to provide at least basic information on the nature and extent of those infringements. finally, better information on infringement procedures following a formal request was already requested by the european parliament in its resolution of 4 february 2010. as a positive signal from the speech of the vice-president of the european commission, mr šefčovič, i see the commission's intention to explore the possibility of introducing a code of investigation procedure which would lay down various aspects of the infringement procedure, including time limits, the right to be heard, the obligation to state reasons and the like. i am convinced that closer cooperation between the commission and the european parliament can lead to an even better and more transparent mechanism for monitoring the application of european union law.
china is both an economic and a military power, and the chinese administration has long demonstrated in its treatment of its citizens that it will apply the cultural, civic and democratic principles as known to the outside world selectively within its borders, only as it sees fit to control its own country. i don't think our outrage will change the chinese government's intention to pursue its own educational policy in the territory. nevertheless, i think it is necessary to make our chinese partners seriously aware that the tibetan people have the right to preserve their identity, their language and that their mother tongue plays an irreplaceable role in the education of children. just as slovakia treats the hungarian minority, when children from the hungarian minority from kindergarten through primary school to university can study in hungarian, so perhaps the chinese in tibet should do the same. on the other hand, i would like to point out to mr sógor that slovak children in hungary have to learn from kindergarten through primary school to university in hungarian and have slovak only as a foreign language.
we are considering whether the current agreement between russia and the european union meets our expectations and whether the mutual movement of citizens corresponds to their travel interests. commissioner, i can tell you without hesitation that the current visa regime is inadequate and is particularly damaging to the european union. russia has changed a lot since the days of the former soviet union. the middle class is solvent, interested in exploring the world, traveling, recreation, shopping. when my country joined the schengen area, we had to restrict russian citizens from travelling to slovakia in accordance with european union rules. the economic impact was severe, and tourism businesses, shops lost a lot of good customers. the european visa regime discouraged decent russians from travelling to slovakia, but did not restrict the less decent ones from migrating. i am therefore convinced that as long as we care about decent russians, we will try to open up our economic space and use the potential that is in russia to expand and enrich cooperation between countries.
economic immigration is a reality that more or less all the wealthier countries of the european union are familiar with. however, in addition to immigrants who enter european union countries legally, in accordance with their laws and regulations, there is a significant number of illegal immigrants who are often subject to a degree of discrimination, even exploitation, as their employers often exploit the lack of legitimacy of their residence status. the attempt made in this directive to better organise and introduce certain common rules to deal with this problem can help to preserve the dignity of people coming to the countries of the european union for work, if they are willing to accept the migration rules offered by the union. i have no illusions that the directive will solve all the problems of labour migration. it can, however, improve the current system of employing migrant citizens and eliminate some of the negative phenomena that we have seen in this area. we can therefore rightly regard this proposal for a directive as a step forward. and that's how you have to see it.
the effective implementation of cohesion policy, which is currently highly decentralised, requires further strengthening of the responsibilities of regional and local authorities, as they are the ones who best know the needs of the area and its population. i believe that the creation of a genuine partnership with regional and local authorities requires a clearer definition of the so-called partnership principle and the active involvement of local and regional authorities in consultations on the european union's regional policy. i would stress that ensuring better coordination between the different levels of control, increased flexibility and transparent and clear procedures are not only factors of good governance, but above all they should facilitate the use of funds and increase the participation of potential partners in projects.
in writing. cohesion policy must remain a key eu policy with sufficient financial backing beyond 2013, subject to the following conditions: simplification of procedures for allocating structural funds funds creation of a framework for public-private partnerships infrastructure becoming a prerequisite for increasing global competitiveness partnership as a prerequisite for building real partnerships with regional and local authorities and civil society and as a means of efficiency, legality and transparency at the programming and use stage of the structural funds application of multi-level governance at both vertical and horizontal levels. there are certainly more conditions, but if we are to meet the objectives of the 2020 strategy, i consider these conditions to be key.
i would like to begin by saying that it is good that the european parliament is opening up a debate on unfair practices in advertising, particularly in relation to the development of new advertising methods and technologies. new forms of digital communication have opened up a wide range of opportunities for advertising companies. but with new advertising options came new problems of aggressiveness, deception, or exploiting the confidences of children or adolescents before a strong attack on their consciousness. the regulation of advertising on the internet must respond to the creativity of creators and methods and practices that go beyond the protection of privacy, ethical frameworks or interfere with the personality of children's development must be restricted. so we have to focus on a rigorous analysis, on examining current trends, and we have to focus on setting new rules to prevent technologies and options that interfere with the privacy of families, with the privacy of children, that harm the healthy development of the family, and then apply those rules rigorously.
the various types of advertising disseminated through the new media of communication in recent years have become a social phenomenon, with the risk of abusing the trust of the ordinary consumer. i believe that consumer protection in this area requires at least a minimum of regulation, and i agree with the rapporteur and congratulate him on his report for looking at this in such a constructive way, especially for the benefit of vulnerable groups such as children and young people, as some of the previous speakers have already mentioned, and i myself as a doctor strongly advocate this. it is necessary to avoid cases of deliberate misrepresentation where consumers make decisions on the basis of information which they believe to be objective facts or validated studies, whereas the information is merely of an advertising or commercial nature. i also find the development of advertising practices that directly invade consumers' privacy, such as reading the content of e-mails by third parties who exploit that content for commercial purposes, to be a cause for concern. the advertising practices used by firms must, without exception, respect the confidentiality of private correspondence and the legislation governing the protection of privacy.
for the s&d group. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gál, because i think she has succeeded in achieving the main objective of the report, namely to clarify the roles that the various institutions and mechanisms will play in the new post-lisbon fundamental rights architecture. i consider the three areas covered by the report to be key. it is important that the union not only protects the rights of its citizens and the people on its territory, but also that it becomes a world leader in this field. in this respect, the newly created european external action service can play a key role. i would therefore like to call on the commission to ensure that the structure, resources and activities of the diplomatic service are shaped in such a way that european diplomacy can effectively promote fundamental rights abroad. secondly, democracy and human rights have their new expression after lisbon through the european citizens' initiative instrument. the initiative enhances the role of citizens of the european union and gives them the opportunity to initiate the adoption of european legislation. and thirdly, i would like to express my satisfaction that the report calls on the institutions and member states of the union to redouble their efforts to raise awareness of fundamental rights. in conclusion, let me thank the rapporteur for being attentive to our concerns and for including in the report the explicit reference to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which we requested, in the section on the activities needed to protect fundamental rights.
i'd like to draw your attention to a danger. the combination of different forms of combating discrimination can lead to discrimination. this was also discussed at the osce meeting in vienna last week. it's a paradox, but when anti-discrimination policy becomes an ideology, people start to be discriminated against. we see how the very concept of discrimination has crossed the boundaries of its definition. if there is a serious shortcoming in the european union in this area, it is to return the word 'discrimination' to its original meaning, because today human rights activists and sometimes our own european union agency for fundamental rights do not know this. i therefore advocate democratic control of this institution. otherwise, it may also remain a costly financial burden on the reputation not only of the european commission but indirectly of the european union as a whole.
the european union has always been able to criticise countries outside its borders in order to ensure that fundamental rights are respected. in the case of its own member states, however, it was often powerless to act after admission. that is no longer possible, because today we are not only bound together by common economic principles. the gál kinga report summarises the most urgent and important steps to improve the protection of fundamental rights at home. we need an effective system of protection of rights, which we can establish thanks to the lisbon treaty. violations of citizens' fundamental rights must not go unpunished. it must be possible to hold the offender accountable at both national and european level. i can only agree with the commissioner that the commission should exercise its right to initiate infringement proceedings in each case where it is justified. the complementing of procedures with a blocking procedure can be an effective tool for legal protection against measures taken by member states that infringe fundamental rights. yes, we need to protect people with disabilities, we need to eliminate discrimination and, last but not least, we need to protect the linguistic diversity of europe.
if the european union is to be a genuine area of freedom, security and justice, the differences between the member states in this area must be overcome. victims of violence must be protected against perpetrators not only in their own country, but also have protection measures available throughout the european union. although the proposal is broad, it primarily concerns women victims of gender-based violence. it is good that the situation of other potential victims is also addressed on this occasion, whether they are victims of trafficking in human beings, forced marriages, honour killings, incest, the situation of witnesses or the situation of victims of terrorism and organised crime. i personally appreciate the efforts to ensure the best possible protection of victims, including by ensuring the necessary legal certainty. victims should be able to rely on clear rules and be informed at all times of the measures available to them in the country of origin and in the countries to which they intend to move or have already moved.
i would like to support the idea contained in the preliminary european protection order. in many cases, protection of vulnerable persons at the level of individual member states appears to be inadequate. thanks to the openness of the european space, young people are now often entering into international marriages and international unions. not all such unions, however, last long, and children often become hostages to their parents' disputes. disadvantaged parents often refuse to respect decisions of courts from other countries to entrust the child to one of them and simply take justice into their own hands they kidnap children of former partners to their own country and exploit differences in the legal systems of individual member states to eliminate valid court decisions. small, innocent children are often the victims of this european legal anarchy. i hope that the european protection order will solve this problem as well.
co-rapporteur. − madam president, first of all i would like to express my gratitude to my co-rapporteur ms hedh, the council and the commission and all those who were involved in this demanding work. the current trafficking situation is worrying. the estimated volume is several hundreds of thousands of victims inside europe, the second biggest crime-related business, with an estimated profit of usd 32 million. there are new trends in trafficking in human beings. we have more victims in forced labour. we have more victims coming from member states and, in addition, we have more children among the victims. the estimated global share of child victims is between 40% and 50%. a recent report from the osce called on countries to change their perception of considering human trafficking as a marginal phenomenon and instead encourage them to recognise it as modern-day slavery on a massive scale. combating trafficking in human beings needs a holistic approach, although we only have a limited set of tools. our task is to amend the legislation. the lisbon treaty gave us a new legal basis – article 83. this gives us the means to establish a common approach with a view to creating a more dissuasive environment for traffickers and, at the same time, stronger protection for victims. the proposal, which is a consolidated text agreed upon with the council and the commission, broadens the definition of trafficking, bearing in mind that the forms and trends are changing. the draft gives opportunities for higher penalties, defining a minimum for maximum penalties, encouraging seizing and confiscating the proceeds and assets resulting from trafficking. the proposal opens the issue of the victimisation of victims, entitling courts not to impose penalties on criminal activities of victims which are committed under duress. assistance and support should be provided for victims before, during and for an appropriate time after criminal proceedings, while assistance and support for victims is not made conditional on the victims’ willingness to cooperate in criminal investigations, prosecutions and trials. the proposal contains a special provision to enhance the protection of children during the investigation and assistance. the draft directive also has a provision on the european anti-trafficking coordinator, who in the future could contribute to a more comprehensive, more coherent and more coordinated anti-trafficking policy.
for the s&d group. first of all, i would like to thank mrs bauer and mrs hedh for the comprehensive treatment of this extremely important issue. human trafficking is a reprehensible phenomenon in today's civilized society. after arms and drugs, it is the third most lucrative illegal trade in the world. this so-called modern form of slavery is a serious crime that grossly infringes basic human rights. the lisbon treaty strengthened the european union's action in various areas of criminal law, including the fight against trafficking in human beings. the european parliament, as co-legislator, has an important role to play here. however, experience shows that the current legal framework is not effective enough and that more needs to be done to protect human rights. preventive measures should be taken against trafficking in human beings itself. particular attention should be paid to children and women as the most vulnerable groups. we must do everything we can to contribute to a more dignified living environment for the potential victims of this crime, citizens who often live on the periphery of society.
the prosecution of legal persons for trafficking in human beings offences will contribute to intensifying the fight against this new form of slavery. of course, the penalty for a legal person must not preclude the penalty for specific natural persons who have participated in any way in the act. i consider that, in addition to the imposition of fines, exclusion from entitlement to public benefits or aid, suspension of the exercise of a business activity and, in particular, a court decision to dissolve a legal person are effective measures against legal persons. member states must ensure, by adopting legal provisions, that national authorities are able to decide not to prosecute or to impose a penalty on victims of trafficking in human beings, in order to be able to continue the investigation even if the victim has withdrawn his or her statement. last but not least, i would like to point out that the victims of these heinous acts are often still victimized and find themselves in very precarious conditions, which justifies special protection and support. particular attention must also be paid to child victims for whom more comprehensive and lasting solutions must also be sought.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much. i would like to thank the commissioner for saying that this is a historical text. this is probably true, because under the lisbon treaty we are bringing criminal law for the first time, but i would very much like to hope that this is a big step forward to ensure that no offender, no offender in human trafficking, goes unpunished. what was particularly reassuring about this debate that took place here was the presence of political will. i myself have been struck by the idea, and i have sometimes shared it, that there is a lack of political will to make any serious progress in this area. what i heard today is the opposite, and i thank my colleagues very much, that this political will to take a huge step forward in the area of human trafficking, it has manifested itself in this way. we have received two amendments from the efd, i would like to ask my colleagues not to support them because they want to reduce the punishment to the minimum level, and i thank mrs tzavela very much for asking the opposite, to strengthen the punishment. i'm convinced that this is an important step, but it must be followed by a series of next steps today. we have a job to do to fight the demand. we certainly can't solve all the supply problems, but we can certainly do a lot about demand, and i have a feeling that in this area, the time is not yet right, there may be little political will to move forward. i am convinced that sooner or later the scope of the legislation will have to be extended to offenders from third countries who are here with a residence permit, just as i am convinced that we will also need to look at the directive on temporary residence permits in order to make the legislation in this area consistent. thank you so much for your support.
the controllability and effectiveness of regional policy contribute to the economic and social security of eu citizens. i voted in favour of the direction of good governance set by this house because i too believe that closer regional cooperation is the key to the rise of our countries. it is therefore appropriate to call on the member states to make better use of cross-border cooperation. it is the high-level governance that can help local and regional authorities and the public and private sectors to find each other. the idea of involving local and regional authorities in policy-making, as expressed in the implementation, is also worth supporting. the large number of actors involved in policy, at community, national, regional and local level, is both an opportunity and an uncertainty. the union framework should ensure a proper balance between the two.
i supported the directive because trafficking in human beings takes away freedom in the broadest sense of the word. i am pleased that the new directive requires states to improve their legislation to combat this crime effectively, but i would also like to point out that the prosecution of traders must be preceded by a society-wide condemnation of exploitation. every business needs a buyer, and those are often people from rich democracies, they can be our neighbors. the report pays attention to victims, but we need to do more, we need to keep our eyes open, to be aware of what's going on around us so that people who don't see a way out of their poverty never become victims. let's focus on educating children and youth, let's inform parents and teachers, let's talk about it in the media, because the most effective prevention is lack of demand.
mr president, i am speaking to the luhan report, which is the last item on the agenda for today's debate. competitiveness and cohesion are complementary and mutually reinforcing elements. however, the competitiveness of the european union as a whole can be achieved provided that economic growth is genuinely sustainable. many investments co-financed by the structural funds have proved successful in practice, and i would like to highlight the improvement of infrastructure, which has attracted foreign investment to many regions and contributed to economic development. however, cohesion policy has also proved itself in times of financial crisis as an effective tool for responding flexibly to new socio-economic challenges. i also share the rapporteur's view that the economic competitiveness of eu regions is closely linked to an adequate level of employment, an educated and skilled workforce, social security and access to public services, as the promotion of social cohesion is key to overall regional competitiveness, also on a global scale.
in writing. - when we speak of cohesion in this parliament, we speak of aspirations. our voters and ourselves would like to live in a europe where everyone is prosperous, no one is poor and no one is in need of work. so this report is like a list of children writing to jesus. its undeniable benefit is that it contains everything we could possibly want under the tree if not this year, then maybe in 2020. there's only one problem. all these things cost money. and as with families with young children, priorities need to be set. i cannot help feeling that this is the original task of this parliament. and the report that has been presented is a bit of a sad testimony that even the crisis has not helped us to do this better. we still have too many priorities. but there is only one budget in each family, and gifts are bought from what is left over after the family has eaten, dressed, and paid all the housing and energy bills. the support we so generously ask for here and there is money pulled from the pockets of taxpayers, fathers and mothers who decide every month what is their real priority and what has to wait. let's not forget that.
for the efd group. the proposed revision of the energy efficiency action plan outlines several ways in which the european union could contribute to meeting its ambition to reduce greenhouse gases by 2020. the philosophy of the present study is based on the logical consideration that if we manage energy rationally and take the necessary affordable measures to reduce energy waste in all sectors of energy consumption, we can achieve significant savings in production costs as well as in environmental pollution. the proposed measures concern not only the energy infrastructure, i.e. the generation and transmission of energy, but also the construction industry, industrial production and transport. the measures are generally captured as basic postulates without any claim to describe their expected benefits. it is certainly good that the european union has some sort of summary list of measures that could gradually increase the efficiency of energy use. but in view of the european union's target date of 2020 to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases produced in europe by 20%, it might be worth considering what measures, to what extent, at what cost, with what effect, we are prepared to implement within the current capabilities and competences for the next 10 years. i am not saying that we should give up on pushing for change, on increasing efficiency in energy production and transport, but given the cost, the time to plan, design and then implement, i think that by 2020 there will be little change in this area, as well as in some of the other measures proposed. i therefore believe that it would be good if the commission could already at this stage select from this vast base of organisational, time and financial measures on which we can concentrate in order to create a strong initial impetus for the adoption of an energy management philosophy as a part of the thinking, first among the professionals and then also among the general public. we are already trying, mr commissioner, to promote the insulation of buildings, to encourage people to change their appliances or vehicles, so that they invest in more efficient and better ones when they buy. let's continue to do this more vigorously, perhaps more sophisticatedly, adding further incentives by introducing new and meaningful measures. i think that's a way to improve energy efficiency.
in writing. review of the energy efficiency action plan energy efficiency is one of the most effective ways of reducing co2 and other gas emissions. it also has huge benefits in terms of job creation and economic growth. the economic environment has changed significantly since the adoption of the energy efficiency action plan 2006. i therefore see a clear need to review the eu's energy efficiency policy and align it with our current priorities. on the basis of this assessment, i believe that we should use the document assessing the achievements and shortcomings of the 2006 action plan. we must do everything we can to meet the 20% target set in our europe 2020 strategy. while emissions and renewable energy values are easy to measure, energy efficiency data are more difficult to calculate. that is why we need the commission. the statistics they provide enable us to monitor changes in our energy policy. we know that there is a huge potential in energy efficiency in buildings. so we need to push for the renovation of our existing buildings, because the rate of new construction is decreasing. there are many buildings, especially in the central european countries, which, if properly restored, would have a high efficiency potential. in terms of legislative measures to support energy-efficient solutions, the us and china are far ahead of us. we must do everything we can to minimize our disadvantage. the european union and the member states should support measures and instruments to increase funding.
we are talking about a proposal for a financial stability instrument for the euro area an instrument that should help our friends from countries that today somehow do not have the means to pay their debts. we are all talking about creating a common financial stability mechanism guaranteed by all the eurozone countries and we expect solidarity from those who can still keep their debts under control with those who can no longer. after the experience of the solutions to help greece so far and the one-off protective currency created recently, i wonder what would happen if the financial wizards in the markets took their calculators and started to assess the creditworthiness of the proposed solution and found that even this solution was not credible enough to be willing to take the risk of putting their money into the european space? i ask, are we prepared for such follow-up solutions and follow-up actions? because the credibility of the solution at this point in time, according to this construction, is very low.
in writing. - in this parliament we often refer to the citizens of the european union, whose interests we represent here. but at the same time, for many years, these same citizens have perceived not only this parliament but all the european institutions as too distant and insensitive to their problems. a citizens' initiative can change that. it will enable citizens to say directly: this is what we want, this is what we do not want and this is what must change. we also like to talk about european integration. but what brings people from different countries together more than the need to seek common ground, formulate a common proposal and seek the support of people who speak different languages? in practice, the implementation of the citizens' initiative will mean that citizens from different member states will speak with one voice on issues that are important to them. a common initiative, a common interest, will be the soil on which a genuine european identity can be built. i am convinced that in the near future this practical europeanism will begin to take shape. i believe that, unlike the phrases in the brochures of the european institutions, it will be alive and viable, because the source of this new european identity, this new europeanness, will be the citizen himself. i therefore welcome the proposal for a regulation on how to implement the citizens' initiative and am prepared to do everything to ensure that the voice of citizens is not only heard but also respected.
in writing. − the effect of advertising on consumer behaviour. advertising is as useful for the internal market as it is for consumers. it stimulates competition, enhances competitiveness and stimulates innovation and creativity. it is also an important sector from an economic point of view, since the online advertising market alone generates a turnover of eur 14 billion. but you have to look at the other side of the coin. many advertisements attempt to manipulate vulnerable audiences. such ones may include children and people who are heavily in debt. i consider it important to strengthen joint european cooperation in the fight against unfair advertising. we cannot allow discriminatory gender stereotypes to develop which could undermine gender equality. we need to ensure that media and advertising professionals respect human dignity and oppose direct or indirect discrimination or stereotyping by means of appropriate tools.
the european union is founded on values such as freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. however, if the union is to play a significant role in promoting human rights in the world, it must develop a coherent foreign policy to which all member states should be committed to contributing. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty is a unique opportunity to make a significant step forward in the field of human rights and democracy, which should henceforth become a central element in various areas of foreign policy. the decision to integrate human rights into the structures of the european external action service is therefore of undeniable and decisive importance. however, i am convinced that the creation of a position of special representative for human rights would also contribute to increasing coherence and, above all, the necessary visibility of the european union's external activities in this field. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs andrikienė, on the excellent work she has done on the european union's annual report on human rights 2008 2009, which provides a thorough overview of the european union's diverse activities in the field of human rights and democracy in the world.
i think no war brings peace and prosperity and neither does afghanistan. we should think about it, while some of our colleagues, especially from the epp, are worried about whether we will support some kind of aircraft - i am not a military expert and i do not understand what this debate is about - i think we should focus much more on what mr arlacchi mentions in this report, and that is very important. it's the situation of women and children in this country. we should certainly focus more on promoting non-discrimination against women and combating discrimination. and we should certainly focus on the fact that many children in afghanistan, for example, don't have the opportunity to go to school, and many of them live below the poverty line. i think that unless we support education and health projects and continue to invest in military solutions to this conflict, we're not going to get anywhere.
we know from experience that outside intervention is only possible when the majority of the population is asking for outside assistance. after years of intervention in afghanistan, we see that the afghans don't understand us, they don't want our help, they don't understand our civilization, our cultural values. in slovakia, we have a saying that "if you can't help someone, you can't help them". i don't mean to say that the afghans can't be helped, but you can't choose forms that are explicitly forceful and violent. we should focus, above all, on how to change and structure our assistance to meet the needs of the afghan people. i think it's really necessary that we gradually withdraw the military and hand over power to the domestic administration, to the domestic politicians and then through the domestic politicians help the people of the republic of afghanistan so that they can identify with our civilized values, that they understand us, and then hopefully they will be willing and able to accept our help.
while the nato summit in lisbon addressed a number of serious issues of security risks in the contemporary world, some conclusions and decisions are more significant in their impact on the political world today. the new cautious attempt by nato to cooperate with russia in building a missile defence system in europe represents a change in security policy that suggests that both the united states and europe can find in russia a new strong partner who may also realize that the greatest threat to the peaceful and dignified life of a civilized democratic society has become terrorist groups and militant regimes built on extremist ideologies. baroness ashton, it would be good if we could effectively translate the words of us president barack obama, who said that he sees russia as a partner, not an enemy, into a new positive impulse for economic cooperation. at a time when european industry is struggling to sell off its production, the open and solvent market space of the russian federation can offer opportunities that can help both partners - russia and europe - with their internal economic problems.
at the lisbon summit, nato reaffirmed its role as the guarantor of security in the euro-atlantic area, while acknowledging that it had to face new challenges. the best tool for this task is a wide network of strategic partnerships, either with states or with international organisations. nato must therefore be prepared to engage in political dialogue with any potential partner who shares our common aspirations for peace and secure international relations. i see cooperation with russia as a key strategic partnership, where nato needs to deepen practical cooperation in order to face modern threats from international terrorism, piracy, human trafficking and drugs. nato needs sufficient financial, military and human resources to fulfil its mission. but it is necessary that these resources be used as efficiently as possible and, above all, to ensure peace.
in writing. colleagues! two presidential candidates were declared winners and sworn in on december 4. it is not possible for a presidential election to have two winners in one country. the situation in côte d'ivoire is therefore very dangerous, as we all know very well that a country marked by years of unrest and violence is more than susceptible to steps that could lead to a renewed civil war, as it did in 2002 when it erupted after a violent coup d'état. the actions of the international community, represented on our part by the european union, must therefore be carefully considered and not postponed, as they will have a crucial impact on the lives of the people of this country. i therefore fully agree with mrs ashton's comments. sanctions against the country will be the only possible solution by the eu to punish those who prevent a peaceful exchange of political elites. sanctions must serve to help enforce the will of the people of côte d'ivoire. but we must not forget the people and we must try to help improve their security so that they can live in a free and democratic country.
for the efd group. although the swiss confederation has not yet decided to become a member state of the european union, it has long shown a serious interest in broad cooperation with the european union in the field of education and training for young people. the legal basis for such cooperation between the swiss confederation and the european union in this area was established following the establishment of the youth in action and lifelong learning programmes in 2006. following the recommendations of the european council, the european commission, after consulting its swiss partners, has prepared an agreement that will enable us to develop effective cooperation in the field of education and training for young people, as well as in the field of lifelong learning with our swiss friends. the agreement is fair, balanced and reflects the interests of both parties to extend mutual cooperation and promote the exchange of knowledge and expertise in order to improve the quality of the educational process. i therefore consider, commissioner, that this agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation is a good step in the right direction.
my dear officer. europe's youth is the generation that has the privilege of growing up on a continent of peace, almost without borders, characterised by mobility and multilingualism, and offering a wide range of cultural and economic opportunities. in order to ensure that as many young people as possible take up active citizenship, there is a need to develop stable support systems in youth policy. it is true that switzerland is not a member of the european economic area, but it cooperates closely with the european union, and not only in the fields of education, training and youth. since 2008, switzerland has been participating in and funding a number of projects aimed at reducing economic and social disparities within an enlarged europe. switzerland is in solidarity with and committed to the enlargement of the european union and seeks to establish strong economic and political links with the new member states. i agree with the main points of the agreement on swiss participation in the programme, which establishes switzerland as an equal partner ... (the president cut the speaker off)
for the efd group. islamic traditional law, the sharia, as practiced in many moderate muslim countries, allows corporal punishment for breaking the law. a famous case from malaysia was the sentencing of kartika sari dewi shukarna, a model, to six lashes for being caught drinking beer. however, after the sentence was announced to be carried out by rattan in a women's prison, by the decision of malaysian sultan ahmad shah, who is the guardian of the rules of islam in malaysia, the sentence of six lashes, given to a thirty-two-year-old mother of two, was changed to three months of community service. a somewhat worse case was that of nazaruddin kamaruddin, a 46-year-old indonesian who was sentenced to six lashes and a year in prison for the same offense. "the aim of the verdict is not to punish but to teach", said judge abdul rahman mohamed yunos, who also sentenced kartika shukarnova. wee ka siong, the deputy minister of education, used the same line of reasoning to defend his decision when he justified corporal punishment of children in schools, adding that he would allow only the school principal or someone authorized to administer the punishment, and that parents would be informed of the punishment and a witness would be present when the punishment was administered. well, colleagues, colleagues, what we're talking about is not exotic. this is real life in a so-called moderate muslim country. so if we can help people in such lands to break free from medieval punishments and manners by diplomacy or other means, let us not hesitate to help!
for the efd group. the sinai border has become a route for thousands of eritreans fleeing their country to try to reach a better world. however, in their illegal quest for freedom, they rely on the assistance of smugglers, who are willing to help refugees cross the sinai border without the necessary documents, for a hefty tip. in this savage trade, refugees have almost no rights in the hands of the smuggling gangs, being subject to the will and favor of fate and the arbitrariness of those to whom they have bribed to put their own destiny in their hands. the death of seven eritrean refugees killed on the egyptian/israeli border has given us a glimpse of the plight of refugees illegally travelling for freedom. it is therefore appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, to intervene in the solution of this problem and, together with the governments of the countries concerned, to help find a civilized solution to the problem of eritrean refugees.
