i too express my sympathy for what happened in haiti, but i also congratulate the european commission and the european institutions for having reacted relatively well. but i wonder, as some of my colleagues do, if they reacted quickly enough. perhaps a good presence of the immediate chairman on the scene of the tragic event is also important in many ways. i disagree with those who say that the presence of soldiers and others to maintain order can be the beginning of a colonial attitude to this. i don't think that kind of talk is fair or just. it is important, however, that at the next international conference for haiti we also define long-term measures how to establish, re-establish state institutions so that they can function, in particular health policies and education. only these policies or these areas and these institutions can establish haiti as a somewhat more stable country in the long run than it has been in the past.
i will speak in slovenian language, so please be prepared on translation. we have a country in yemen that is shaken by religious and tribal conflicts and the mistakes of colonial and american policies in the past. the context that some colleagues have been talking about is the unstable, unresolved problems-laden region of the middle east, and of course the mother of all crises, the unresolved palestinian-israeli conflict. yemen reflects all these problems and there is no need to create the illusion that we are dealing with some local problem. we have a civil war in yemen, strongholds of al qaeda, proximity to somalia, a weak state, poor intelligence coverage, ineffective security and military armed forces. what can we expect from the london conference? madam high representative, i think that the most difficult thing is to formulate a comprehensive approach, and yet this is precisely what is needed and this is the only way to solve the problem of yemen. economic approach, development approach, assistance in state building and administrative capacity building. but i think the other message i would ask you, madam high representative, to convey is, don't be under any illusions, no one should be under any illusions that this is just some new issue, some new problem that can be solved by military means. i'm afraid there are many, especially in the world media, some signs that we are preparing for some new front, some new armed conflict. this would be the worst of all things that could happen in yemen and would probably then poison relations in the entire region even further. i think we've learned enough from the military adventures we've seen, from the middle east to the middle east, afghanistan and elsewhere.
the copenhagen conference is a disappointment to me too, but let us stop complaining about the poor results and ask ourselves how we can move forward so that we are not disappointed again. and it's not enough to just say, "we're going to continue the work we started", because something has to change. and the first question i ask myself is, what are cop conferences? whether it's serious conferences or some public shows. both of them, of course. however, we must ensure that the work of experts can take place and that the public is informed about the serious work, not just about these events, which are informal in nature and take place in parallel with the conference. so europe should raise the question of the organisation of the conference itself. the second question is, what is the role of world leaders at this conference? do they come to the conference to work on their domestic political campaign or do they come to help make some compromise? i think we should also raise the question of the working methods of the conference itself and the role of world leaders in the conference. and the third issue is the leadership of the european union. yes, we have many good measures to keep europe at the forefront of the development of environmentally friendly technologies, but we have lost the lead in the negotiation process. and i think it's not enough to just accept our coordinating role in the negotiation process itself, but we have to be an active negotiator. that is why we cannot put all our cards on the table before the negotiations begin, and say what our objectives are. and we must move towards third countries, not away from them. and the last point i want to make here is that we must always include the issue of climate change in our international meetings, and here i naturally expect close cooperation between the two commissioners responsible for these two areas.
when murder happens, and it's murder on religious grounds, of course, anything other than appalled and condemned is hardly appropriate. but i think that the fact that there's a new incident and a new crime in the middle east is actually a reflection of some general conditions and a repeated disregard for religious freedom and respect for others. i'm talking about the fact that these religious values are not respected in many places. the reason why alde proposed that this debate be postponed, or that the debate on respect for human and religious rights in egypt and malaysia be separated, was that individual countries should be treated with a certain sensitivity, and egypt is certainly not one of the most egregious examples of religious intolerance, quite the contrary.
the assembly of macedonia on thursday adopted a declaration of support for the european parliament's resolution on srebrenica, which we adopted by an overwhelming majority a year ago. in this resolution, our parliament pays tribute to all the victims of all the wars fought on all sides in the last decade of the last century, and not just to the victims of the srebrenica genocide. in skopje, it was approved and adopted by 70 votes to one, as the third parliament in the western balkans region. such a majority, such a consensus deserves the respect and recognition of this city. although macedonia was in no way complicit in this tragic event, their response is an act of solidarity and a civic gesture that deserves respect and homage. the decision of the council is an expression of our respect for all the victims and a message of our shared responsibility for a brighter and better future for all the countries of the western balkans. it is a step forward, a hand of reconciliation to all neighbours, an example for all other countries in the region. as a co-rapporteur of the resolution, i would like to thank my colleagues in macedonia for their political courage and contribution to the reconciliation of the region.
europe is full of minorities, and a significant part of them are ethnic minorities. 8% of the population are indigenous minorities, with an additional 6.5% being immigrant minorities. before the last two enlargements, candidate countries had to prove that they met the criteria on minority rights. conversely, countries that were already members of the union were not subject to scrutiny as to their policies and attitudes toward minorities. therefore, the existing situation was unequal. recently, the slovenian national community in italy, austria and hungary has also been under great pressure due to the reduction of financial resources for its activities. i therefore call on european politics to begin to address minority issues seriously, at european level. the new lisbon treaty has given us a legal basis for this. i therefore also call on the european commission to draw up and present a plan on how it intends to fulfil the provision of the lisbon treaty on the protection of persons belonging to minorities.
i am one of those who believe that today is a great day for european democracy, not only because we are completing the european institutions, the european structures, but also because we are adopting this interinstitutional agreement, which, together with the lisbon treaty, actually means increasing the influence of european citizens on european politics. and this seems to me to be important, especially now that we are witnessing or can already feel the first crises of european democracy, which is seen in the declining voter turnout, the declining trust of people in the basic democratic institutions, the fact that in some european capitals there is violence against protesters, in others there are memories, totalitarian symbols and so on. in short, i think it is time that european politics did something to develop democracy, also at the level of institution building, but that is not enough. we will also have to make an effort to try to influence the raising of the level of democratic political culture, especially in the post-communist countries.
first of all, i would like to thank both the council and the commission for their proactive stance on guantanamo. guantanamo is an anomaly and a disgrace from the first day this prison opened. perhaps there was some understanding in the aftermath of 9/11, but, years have passed since then, the shame continues and in fact the embarrassment continues for all of us who believe in the values of western civilization, such as respect for human rights and the rule of law. this morning i happened to read on the web site of an organization, which is a government organization called the joint task force guantanamo. you'd laugh if it wasn't so sad, the way they describe the situation at guantanamo as a five-star hotel with all the comforts you need. so i think it's time to call out, "mr. obama, shut this shame down and spare us the reproach of hypocrisy.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i am delighted that my very first official engagement since taking up office just some hours ago is here in the european parliament. i also think that it is an excellent turn of events that the very first debate in this high house with a new commission is taking place on enlargement. thirdly, i am delighted that the european parliament expressed its strong support for enlargement in three reports. the resolutions are proof of the commitment of the european parliament to the accession prospects of croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and turkey. this is a clear signal that enlargement will continue to be a top priority of the european parliament and, together with my colleagues, i will do my utmost to bring this success story forward. i am very glad that my friend secretary of state lópez garrido has just reconfirmed full support for this process on behalf of the council and its presidency. on croatia, i appreciate parliament’s fair and balanced report and would like to congratulate mr hannes swoboda, the rapporteur. the report highlights the progress achieved by croatia in meeting the criteria for accession but, at the same time, recognises the efforts that are still necessary for concluding the negotiations. your report thus reinforces the messages and supports the work undertaken by the commission. let me underline that closure of negotiation in 2010 is still possible, provided that croatia progresses in fulfilling all outstanding benchmarks. the ball is clearly in croatia’s court. croatia has come a long way over recent years but important challenges still remain to be tackled. here we share a common assessment. croatia needs to focus, in particular, on the further reform of its judiciary and public administration, the fight against corruption and organised crime, respect for minority rights including refugee return, as well as war crimes trials and full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. we are encouraged by recent developments in fighting corruption. we hope that investigation into wrongdoing leads to concrete results. as for cooperation with the icty, which is a fundamental requirement, chief prosecutor brammertz confirmed that full cooperation has still not been achieved. however, he acknowledged recent positive steps such as the setting up of the task force aimed at stepping up investigation efforts. i hope that the work of the task force will soon produce concrete results. finally, the arbitration agreement of november 2009 between slovenia and croatia on the handling of the bilateral border issue has started a new momentum in the negotiations process which, i trust, croatia will be able to seize by intensifying its efforts to address the remaining outstanding issues. as regards the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, 2009 was a good year as regards its reform process. thanks to political consensus between all the main political forces, the country was able to make significant progress in key areas. it achieved visa liberalisation, and the commission could recommend starting accession negotiations. i am glad to see that there is a strong consensus between parliament and the commission that accession negotiations should start, as expressed in mr thaler’s constructive and forward-looking report. now the challenge for the country is to maintain the reform momentum. while the country met the political criteria, there is still much work to be done. a shared vision of the future and effective political dialogue between the political forces will be crucial to ensuring progress. continued efforts are needed in particular on fully implementing the ohrid framework agreement and improving inter-ethnic relations, ensuring the rule of law and an independent judiciary, and successfully prosecuting high-level corruption cases. the economic crisis has not left the country untouched. unfortunately the country was already suffering one of the highest unemployment rates in europe. now, more than ever, prudent macroeconomic management and active labour market measures are needed to contain, and then reduce unemployment. like you, i am convinced that the start of accession negotiations is key to maintaining the reform momentum in the country. equally important, it will enhance the european perspective for the wider region. it is therefore in the strategic interest of the european union. this is the message which i will be putting forward to the member states and to the country so as to take the process forward. on turkey, i would like to thank your rapporteur, ms oomen-ruijten, for her continued efforts towards a fair and balanced approach in her report on turkey. the commission remains committed to the accession process with turkey as this process gives strong encouragement to political and economic reform. work on the political criteria remains of the utmost importance, in particular as regards fundamental freedoms. a number of landmark reforms have been carried out in the past year. some of them were next to impossible only a few years ago. last week the security protocol that allowed the army to intervene without authorisation in the case of security threats was annulled. this is a landmark achievement in civilian-military relations. we will observe closely the follow-up of this conciliation. the submission of a draft law setting up an independent human rights institution and the much awaited anti-corruption strategy, adopted in principle by the turkish government on 21 january, are also promising. we continue to support the democratic opening launched by the government. the success of this initiative requires the participation and support of all political parties and all segments of society. however, the commission has concerns following the decision of the constitutional court to close the pro-kurdish party represented in parliament, the dtp. we also regret the arrests that took place in the south-east at the end of december. we condemn the terrorist attacks that took place at the same time. none of these developments is really conducive to the successful implementation of the democratic opening.
the author. − 2009 was a good year for the candidate country macedonia. this is what the commission of the european union is doing, what the two presidencies are doing, the swedish presidency and now the spanish presidency. and that's what my submission says. the key priorities of the accession partnership, the so-called benchmarks, were addressed and fulfilled by the skopje authorities. secondly, macedonia was the first country to meet all the conditions for visa liberalisation in july last year, which then entered into force on 19 december. it has resolved the border issue with kosovo and the country is well engaged in regional initiatives such as cefta and the south-east european cooperation process. he has cooperated well with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in the hague. last week, the parliament passed a resolution on srebrenica. what do we want to achieve in parliament with a resolution, with my report on macedonia's progress? we're here to help. we want to help macedonia to set foot on the path of stability in the european union. it should be noted that this is the only republic of the former yugoslavia that has managed to avoid the wars of milosevic. secondly, we want to help our member country greece and thus the european union as a whole. because we have to realize, the country is doing about as well as its neighbors. it's an empirical fact that can be proven. that is why i call on our friends, our member greece, to work with the government in skopje to solve this problem and breathe freely to the north. he becomes an honest, honest, open-minded leader, mentor and sponsor of the balkans. that's what the balkans need today. i would like to welcome agenda 2014, an initiative launched by the new greek government of mr papandreou. good for you for taking the initiative. i'm on greece's side, and let's do everything together to get closer to that goal. let's show solidarity, both with our member and vice versa. solidarity must be reciprocated. we must remember that the balkans are like riding a bicycle. as long as it moves, as long as it moves forward, everything is relatively fine. if it stops, if it's blocked, if it goes into a deadlock, we go down, we all go down. this is where peace, stability, security and social cohesion are lost. finally, i would like to stress that macedonia has been a candidate country since 2005. we all need to be aware of the consequences of our choices as well as our lack of choices. whenever i am in skopje, i make it clear to them: it is your responsibility to find a solution with your neighbour greece. we therefore call on the government, the authorities in skopje, athens and sofia, and also on us, the spanish presidency, commissioner fule, foreign minister ashton and parliament, to do everything in our power to help them solve this problem. we will achieve a different, better balkan than we have seen in the last 20 years.
on behalf of the alde group. with the resolution we are adopting today on croatia here in the european parliament, we recognise that country for having made progress in meeting the criteria for integration into the european union, progress in democratic systemic reforms and adapting its legislation to the requirements of the acquis. this places croatia at the top of the list of countries with the prospect of full membership of the european union and opens up the possibility, which we also wrote in the document, to conclude the negotiations this year. it is gratifying to note that the new croatian prime minister, ms kosorjeva, has successfully and rapidly presented her work in the areas where there have been the greatest delays so far: in the fight against corruption and organised crime, in the implementation of the programme of administrative reforms, in the treatment of war crimes, in the legal or constitutional provision of the appropriate status for national and other minorities. the new croatian government, with the signature of a border arbitration agreement with neighbouring slovenia, not only removed an obstacle to the negotiation process, but also paved the way for the resolution of other open issues. it is important that croatia continues to resolve border issues with other neighbouring countries and that the talks on this are conducted in good faith and pacta sunt servanda. i would point out that the resolution, which was drafted under the excellent leadership of my colleague, hannes svoboda, objectively and in good faith also draws attention to the problems where croatia still has a lot of work to do, whether it is for cooperation with the hague tribunal, more consistent prosecution of corruption, restructuring of the economy, finances or for a more committed and sincere removal of obstacles to the return of the serb population. croatia is also their home. the positive progress report of croatia and macedonia should also be a positive sign of openness to the enlargement of the european union to all the countries of the western balkans and confirmation of the commitments we have made to these countries, including turkey, if they meet all the necessary criteria, and this depends mainly on them. finally, i would like to wish the new commissioner, mr füle, well. i am sure that you will do your job very well.
if the european union is to play a stronger global role, it must ensure that there are more european union in europe. this also means completing the project of a united europe in the south-east direction. it is not just a european perspective that is needed, but also a dynamic process and incentives. i am pleased to welcome the progress made in all three countries and congratulate the rapporteurs rhea oomen-ruijten, zoran thaler and hannes svoboda on a job well done. i am particularly pleased that in all three countries special attention has been paid to developing relations with neighbours. the arbitration agreement between slovenia and croatia was also mentioned. the fact is that the croatian and slovenian governments interpret this time quite differently and this at a key point, which does not strengthen mutual trust. i call on both governments to use the bilateral possibilities for a uniform interpretation of the agreement as well as for the development of a good neighbourly atmosphere conducive to the conclusion of the accession process. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his important task and wish him every success in achieving his ambitious goals. i also wish the spanish presidency much happiness and wisdom.
i congratulate all the rapporteurs on their balanced reports and wish you, commissioner, every success in your important role. i would like to point out that the member states of the european union do not communicate in the best possible way with the western balkan countries. some countries manipulate dates that are not realistic. the year 2014 that some are offering these days is one that raises false hopes, unrealistic expectations, and misleads both politicians and the public of these countries. only a real approach and fairness on our part can strengthen the pro-european forces, and false promises are harmful to them and to us. let's be honest, let's be correct, let's be credible. this is what we do.
i congratulate you on the start of your new job and hope that you will succeed in this area. i am very pleased that all three reports are positive, that they show progress in the modernisation of these countries, as we see it from a european perspective. it is important above all that all three countries have high standards of respect for human rights, and europe must be strict here, as well as in its ability to regulate relations with its neighbours. i would like to stress here that i will not support the reports on croatia, mainly because they do not deal with slovenia in an appropriate way.
author. − mr president, in amendment 4, contrary to the voting proposal, i suggest voting against, because of the agreement with greek colleagues.
i am in favour of croatia's membership of the european union, but this must not happen at the expense of slovenia's vital national interests. i am, of course, talking about the border between slovenia and croatia, which is not an abstract concept but is linked to the concrete destinies of people. here in strasbourg, the european parliament called on the slovenian parliament to ratify the arbitration agreement as soon as possible. of course, this is an infringement of the powers of the slovenian parliament. the second thing i would like to know is whether anyone has asked why slovenia has not yet ratified the convention. and i have to tell you that in august 2007, all the parliamentary parties agreed that the solution must be in accordance with the principle of fairness. and i wonder, of course, what could be wrong with that principle, if anyone could possibly contradict it. but unfortunately, it's not in this arbitration agreement. and because the european parliament's resolution does not reflect this principle, i myself voted against it.
commissioner, your message to ukraine today was clear. ukraine has a european perspective and we have the instruments to make this european perspective a credible option. this election was close, but it was democratic, and that's really the conscience of the day for us. the tightness of the election has basically revealed the complexity of this country. this country is multiethnic, it is multi-confessional, it also has a very rich history behind it that we must respect. i think that we, the european parliament and europe as a whole, must use all the means at our disposal to stimulate a productive internal dialogue that will strengthen the ukrainian state and society internally. it's bad if we contribute to some kind of spreading of labels and prejudices. i don't think we've done that before, and i wish we didn't have to do it in the future.
mr commissioner, i wish you every success in your new job. gambling is a modern form of addiction. we all know it, a kind of escapism of modern man. but online games are a fact, a fact that we must confront and seek the best possible solution by protecting the principles on which the european union is founded, such as the free flow of services, on the one hand, and by protecting consumers on the other. but what system to break? leaving too much power to the national member states, i do not think we will in any way eliminate all the disadvantages of online games - neither money laundering nor the other criminal stories that revolve around it. but above all, we will not abolish the monopolies where dedicated service providers are given, within national states of course, this role to play. i am against protectionism in the field of gambling, i am against protectionism in this field and i would like your green paper to actually solve this problem for the benefit of all, both consumers, national states and the principles on which the european union is based.
the abolition of internal borders and freedom of movement are among the most important factors in european integration. we need to make it easier for third-country nationals legally resident in a member state to move around the schengen area. it is unacceptable that we restrict the movement of students, scientists and businesses in europe through bureaucracy. we must also allow freedom of movement as soon as possible to the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and albania and to the people of kosovo, who paradoxically have fewer rights to free movement today than they did years ago. of course, they must be prepared for this and not be fooled by misleading information about mass illegal immigration. the visa regime has isolated people from the western balkans for too long, who need to strengthen contacts with counterparts in the union and are often prevented from doing so by visa refusals. let us not risk a greater sense of isolation and discrimination, especially among young people who may never have had the opportunity to discover the union. so let us not waste time when bosnia and herzegovina and albania, one or the other, meet the criteria for visa liberalisation. any facilitation of travel within the schengen area is a step forward and in the interest of the european union.
mr president, madam commissioner, the spanish presidency! first of all, i would like to congratulate spain for including the summit among its priorities and, at the same time, the commission for deciding to draw up a comprehensive report on the situation of roma in europe, which shows that we are aware of the relevance of this issue, which has only become relevant in recent years with the enlargement of the european union. i am also glad that virtually all or most of the groups in this parliament are taking this problem seriously. the lisbon treaty also provided us with an additional legal basis to take a more thorough approach to developing a comprehensive, robust strategy to address the roma issue, also within the framework of so-called soft legislation. it is clear that we cannot draw up a common roma policy at eu level member states are primarily responsible , but we can draw up some indicators, some common database, exchange good practice and here countries can help each other a lot. i come from slovenia, where we have, for example, the roma helper institute, which mediates between the school and the parents and contributes greatly to the inclusion of roma children in school.
madam european foreign minister, i strongly agree with you that a better and more credible european foreign policy is your key objective. that greater stability and security in our neighborhood, the balkans, is your key objective. we really can't afford to fail here. i therefore propose that you personally get involved in two matters: the urgently needed settlement of the greek-macedonian issue, which will finally allow our member greece to breathe freely northwards, and secondly, the efforts to ensure that serbia, in the artificial dilemma between the european union and kosovo, chooses the european union, so that it does not isolate itself. and perhaps it would be good to remind our friends in serbia again and again of the only real fact that serbia and kosovo will be together again once they are both members of the european union.
the honourable chairman, the honourable baroness, would like to thank both colleagues today for having conducted the debate so brilliantly that it has led to this document, or to both documents by mr. albertini and mr. danjean. i would say that the documents were adopted at the right time, at the beginning of the mandate, and that we have shown in a complex way what we want in the european union's foreign policy. baroness, you have taken this opportunity to transpose these two very concrete documents into your vision of the world, and i count that to your credit. of course, i won't always consider you to be a good person if you don't identify with specific problems, dilemmas and crises. today i consider it particularly good that you have mentioned, in a critical way, the actions of the israeli government in relation to the construction of illegal settlements. in conclusion, i would just say this: i think that in future opportunities we will have to pay a little more attention to our old and reliable partner japan and not be so fascinated by china and other fast-growing countries.
i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs, mr albertini and mr danie. i would like to remind you of the tragic event that happened seven years ago, on march 12th, in belgrade. that's when they killed the serbian prime minister zoran đinđić. he was killed to stop the normalization, the democratization and the europeanization of serbia. they didn't stop it, they slowed it down. this event also had a negative impact on neighbouring countries and the entire region. mrs. ashton, i ask you to help and encourage pro-european forces everywhere in our immediate neighborhood. you must act in a timely and preventive manner. you've decided to take on a new institution and a new function, two roles, two institutions, in fact, and become a sort of double icon. there's no going back for you and for us. there is only one way forward for you, so i ask you to justify the trust we have placed in you.
i would like to express my pleasure and joy at being here today to talk about this initiative that will surely reduce, or at least partially eliminate, what we call the democratic deficit. the fact is, democracy is actually going backwards today. as some studies have shown, the space for democratic dialogue is narrowing, and democracy is understood as nothing more than democratic elections. and all of this is also affecting the mood of citizens, who are becoming increasingly passive, and this is reflected in low voter turnout or even distrust of democratic institutions. so it is very, very important that we have the lisbon treaty, which expands the role of the parliament, the national parliaments and also the european parliament, and what is most important, it allows citizens to have some initiative, initiative, and thank god that this has happened. so, in fact, at european level, something is emerging that we can call the project of european democracy, and i think we have already come a long way. but we must also, of course, build on the so-called european democracy in other areas, including, i do not know if you want to, the nomination or appointment of the european commission. there are a number of areas where the european institutions, including the european institutions themselves, can be democratically reconciled. i am convinced that this project, or this initiative, is a great, great strengthening of european democracy.
i am one of the few who has recently been given the opportunity to visit tibet. that's where the progress is coming from. a development that brings more harm than good, that strips away traditional cultural values, that marginalizes traditional tibetan architecture, that casts a modernist image on the spiritual life of tibet. rivers are dirty, some highways are coming up, which are basically tarnishing tibet's image. but there is an inevitable progress coming, and i think that our demands on china, our expectations, must be aligned with the demand that tibet, that it too, should benefit from progress, and that life there should not be like a museum.
ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the safety of passengers must come first and that we are talking about it today because nature has reminded us of this. airplanes are grounded in much of europe, passengers wait indefinitely, airlines are burning through red numbers, industrial workers fear for their jobs, and the economic damage is immense. of course, airlines are entitled to feel that if farmers are compensated for natural disasters, they too are entitled to compensation. but we've actually done a lot for the environment these days. connectivity let this be a lesson that europe needs better connectivity of air, rail and road transport, that we need funding for high-speed trains, less pollution. we must respond immediately and responsibly, and above all, safely for the passengers.
dear mrs. ashton, we are here to discuss the disturbing events in kyrgyzstan and to contribute as much as we can to the consolidation of the situation in that country. the european union's active engagement with kyrgyzstan is of the utmost importance, and it is equally important that we maintain our high level of commitment to the issue, which we have removed from the agenda of this session, but which, because of its timeliness and because human lives are at stake, i feel obliged to bring to the fore. this is the plight of sahrawi activists, western sahara peacekeepers in moroccan prisons, where they are on hunger strike and risking their lives amnesty international has also warned us about this. i ask you, mrs. ashton, that you and your colleagues address this problem immediately, or it will be too late.
terrorism remains one of the main threats to security in the european union, and we must therefore start negotiations with the us as soon as possible on the transfer of banking data, but not at any price. the new agreement must ensure stronger protection of the personal data of european citizens. we need to get a better agreement that respects human rights and that also solves the problem of data transfer, the transfer of data in packets about millions of european citizens. the future agreement must also be reciprocal, which means that similar financial transaction data would have to be provided by the us authorities if the european union were to establish its own financial asset tracking programme in the future, and i am glad that the commission agrees. the new agreement should also provide for stricter guarantees regarding the transfer of data to third countries. are we going to allow the united states to pass information to any country, or are we going to set some clear criteria for that? it is imperative that we have very suitable fuses. it would also make sense for the country from which the data originate to agree to the transmission of the data to third countries in order to establish some kind of consent system for the country from which the data originate. i therefore ask whether we can put in place some instruments, and what instruments, so that we can also refuse to provide information to third countries if they do not have sufficient concrete reasons for obtaining the information. the european union has no system of tracking its own financial resources and so our security depends on the united states, but what can we ask in return? we must also ensure that any future agreement with the us can be terminated immediately if any of the commitments are not fulfilled. we need to convince our citizens of the value of transferring bank data, as we are increasingly concerned about the extent to which we will allow our privacy to be compromised in the fight against terrorism.
i am sure that all members are aware of the importance of timely, accurate information to ensure the safety of many of our journeys. today, with the chaos in air travel, we also have a much clearer picture of the actual flow of passengers each day. unfortunately, the red numbers of airlines are very telling because of the uncontrolled flights and the crowds that are and are still waiting for their seats on the first possible flight. now i hope we can fly safely again soon. any passenger who departs by air shall expressly only provide his or her data to the authorities responsible for combating terrorism and organised crime. i'm fine with that. if i voluntarily tweet publicly where and when i'm traveling, then i don't mind that this kind of information can also be used to ensure the safety of everyday air travel. but what bothers me is that in the pnr agreements we do not have the same pre-defined conditions for all countries, the criteria for which data we give, and that we do not know the exact purposes for which these authorities will use them. i ask you, can we expect a mandate to negotiate a new data transfer agreement before or during the summer? finally, can all agreements between the european union and individual countries that wish to conclude agreements be typical, with the same high and clear standards of data protection and use? what measures will you take to prevent the use of pnr data for profiling and identification of risk factors? in particular, any possibility of allowing personal profiling on the basis of ethnic origin, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, gender, age or health status is inadmissible. what i might add here is that no system of data collection is sufficient on its own. we can't prevent attempted terrorist attacks without good information sharing and intelligence cooperation. we were reminded of this very well by the attempted air raid on the detroit flight last christmas. the first thing we need is to make effective use of the existing instruments we have in the fight against terrorism and, above all, to improve cooperation. no, let me conclude, no to an agreement that would provide security for us, the citizens. and i don't want our fundamental right to privacy to be violated. but it is true that the encroachment on our privacy is really a balance between security and effectiveness of measures and the guarantee of human rights.
i too would like to join my colleagues in stressing the need for the european parliament to be completed and to be able to work in full as soon as possible. i think the occupation is flawed, given the amendment to our constitution, the lisbon treaty. i too believe that the intergovernmental conference is the right way, the shortest way, to consolidate the legal basis for the european parliament to be able to be staffed. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr méndez de vigo, who has been looking for legal grounds, and i think that is what today's resolution expresses. i too join those colleagues who are looking forward to the new members of the european parliament - i think we need them. and to those who did not foresee in their own elections, the last european elections, that it would be necessary to appoint or elect additional members, i would suggest that the european parliament would not lose any legitimacy because of the two members coming from the national parliaments.
the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a political approach to one of the european union's most pressing problems. cancer is becoming the first disease of the commonwealth, and every third citizen can count on it. i am glad that at the beginning of this mandate it is not necessary to call on the commission and the council to take fundamental steps in the fight against cancer, since we have clear conclusions of june 2008, council conclusions and the commission's ambitious project: a european partnership to fight cancer, presented by the commission in september 2009 and the subject of this report. the important thing is we're in the middle of the action. with this report, we support one of the commission's most ambitious targets, to reduce the cancer burden by 15% in 10 years. i am also pleased that the partnership has been prepared in line with our resolution on the health strategy together for health: a strategic approach of the european union for the period 2008-2013. in this resolution, we committed to health for all and in all policies, and placed a key emphasis on cancer prevention. it is both surprising and worrying that on average, countries invest only 3% of their health budgets in prevention. this figure, which could be interpreted as a statistical error, indicates that the health policy of the member states does not take prevention very seriously. this is where a paradigm shift towards more prevention in a strategic, professional, organisational and financial approach is really needed. we know, and we also know, and it's been proven, that early detection of cancer can significantly reduce cancer mortality. the other key word in the report is inequality. there are many kinds of inequality. the most striking fact is the so-called iron curtain between east and west in terms of the large differences in survival rates for cancer patients, and there are also large differences within the member states. along with differences in treatment success, we also have large differences in the intensity or extent of early detection of cancer, differences in palliative care and in the success of rehabilitation of cancer patients. it is difficult for eu citizens to recognise such differences in the organisation of the fight against cancer, as some countries have national programmes and others do not. the statistical coverage of cancer data is also different. although the european union, even under the lisbon treaty, has only the possibility of support measures, a coordinated and well-organised approach at this level is of the utmost importance for an effective fight against cancer. i cannot imagine an exchange of good practice without the stimulation of common institutions. the third key word in the report is partnership. the commission's ambitious target will only be achieved if we combine our efforts vertically and horizontally. the fight against cancer must remain a constant political priority in the european and national institutions. close contact between doctors and patients is not enough. our task is to contribute to a strong political partnership, to a political will that will start moving things along faster dynamics throughout the european union. let me also emphasize the issue of rehabilitation of cancer patients. we will have to pay much more attention to the winners in the fight against cancer, who must not be stigmatised or written off, but must be given the opportunity to reintegrate fully into society and continue their professional careers. a key part of bringing citizens closer together in europe today is the fight against cancer. i just want to thank the shadow reporters and everyone who helped with this report for their generous help.
the reporter. - i must say that i really enjoyed this evening's debate and i thank you very much for your support, for your kind words. i'm glad to see that we speak the same language and support the same goals to such an extent. we share an awareness of the wider context and causes of this disease as well as an awareness of the need for a united and partnered fight against cancer. due to time constraints, i didn't have time to give you a briefing on healthy living. i am convinced that this is where we can do a lot, including politicians with good examples, and the promotion of healthy lifestyles is needed. having myself been diagnosed with the same condition as my colleague morvai, i would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to her on her victory. i think this is how we prove that cancer is not a death sentence, a necessary death sentence. i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for his attention and for the announcement of the accelerated work, because cancer has its own dynamics and we need dynamics on our side too. i recommend to the commissioner that we continue to work closely together. i think we've worked together in a very exemplary way. i think we can do more together. i would also like to say that the group of members to fight cancer, known in the previous mandate as mac members against cancer, will be re-established shortly. this time i think we'll again, perhaps with a stronger group, put even more emphasis on prevention and on the dynamics of our struggle. thank you all very much and good night.
today is the international day against homophobia. i don't understand why so many people still turn a blind eye to violence based on sexual orientation and identity. i strongly condemn this, as well as all forms of violence based on race and ethnicity, religion or belief, age or disability. i am deeply concerned about the misleading, abusive, even hostile rhetoric that we continue to witness. i am shocked by the violence, both verbal and physical, that is perpetrated against homosexuals and members of diverse minorities. most europeans today say the burqa should be banned. i agree that no one should force women to wear the burqa, but i am concerned that the ban would achieve the opposite: prison for women who are willing to wear the burqa. we must not allow religious arguments to fuel discrimination and violence. after all, we're all human, and we're wondering if we can't tolerate people who are different from us more or if we don't want to.
slovenia and croatia are two neighbouring countries a nation between which there have been no serious problems for centuries. this is still the case today and a majority of slovenes support croatia's membership of the european union as soon as possible. after eighteen years, the two governments succeeded in 2009 in reaching a solution to the dispute over the course of the boundary line, especially in the north adriatic sea, which is a legitimately important issue for slovenia. in the presence of the swedish presidency, an agreement on international arbitration was signed in stockholm to resolve this problem in a fair manner. the ratification process is practically over. in slovenia we are still waiting for a referendum, on june 6th of this year. i call on the european political forces, in particular the european people's party, to take note of the campaign taking place this month in my country, slovenia, and to contribute to a positive outcome that will strengthen good neighbourly relations and enable a european perspective in the unstable balkans.
on saturday, austria celebrated the 55th anniversary of the signing of the austrian state treaty at the belvedere palace, an event that was undoubtedly significant for that country and that actually meant the establishment of the statehood and dignity of austria. the slovenian ministry of foreign affairs, through its ambassador, informed the austrian state on this occasion that the provisions of the austrian state treaties concerning the rights of the slovenian minority in austria were still not being fulfilled. bilingual signs in croatia are still a taboo subject, and the government in vienna has repeatedly given in to the extreme nationalism of croatian nationalists. when i congratulate the austrians on their holiday, i am urging them to make their policy towards minorities more friendly.
the honourable members of the commission, the council, human rights and freedoms have long since ceased to be confined to the national state. so there is a needless dilemma, whether to... this fundamental dilemma, whether the european union should be based on intergovernmental negotiations or become some kind of supranational state. i think that the european union's accession to the convention is a step forward in the expansion of human freedom, individual freedom, it is an added value and our aim must be to create in the european union an area where the standards of human freedom are the highest in this ... in the world. but i do not think that the accession of the european union to the convention will make the european union a realm of freedom all at once. on the contrary, human rights and freedoms will continue to be violated, but it is important that they are not systematically and systematically threatened. we must strengthen the functioning of the courts and other structures, and define their jurisdiction, and that is the end of it.
today was one of the best discussions on the crisis, particularly the greek issue, the greek crisis, and most of the responses, the discussions were essentially about how to run the european union in the future. but it is also true, as some of my colleagues have already pointed out, that they are looking for blame and sin for the situation. i think that's the right and important way too. we must ask ourselves about the responsibility of certain european institutions, but not just about the collective responsibility of the institutions, but in concrete terms. i would suggest that we call to account, for example, the former commissioner for finance, mr almunio, who was quite critical of certain countries during his term of office, and who was the victim of the greek case. i'm asking him to explain his role in this story, and if he doesn't, he should resign.
on behalf of the alde group. mr vice-president, mr commissioner füle, i would like to thank mr peillon further for his fruitful, open and creative cooperation, which has resulted in this report, which i hope will be of interest to others, not just to us who helped to produce it. it is a region that has been a dynamic centre of cultural, spiritual, economic and commercial innovation throughout history. and today, sadly, it is also at the heart of many of the problems that affect us all and the world, and that we would like to see solved. the union for the mediterranean is an important project, but unfortunately it is not progressing as fast as we would have liked. i hope that the establishment of the secretariat in barcelona will be followed by rapid progress in the implementation of the priority projects. the projects must be the driving force and the objective, in fact, of the union's action for the mediterranean, but at the same time we must recognise that there are, above all, some open questions of a political nature, notably the palestinian question and the uncertain status of western sahara, ... that these questions make it difficult to make the necessary progress, and that we must therefore work for more dialogue, more tolerance and confidence-building in the region. the european parliament can certainly play a very important, active role in this and i hope that all actors will accept it as one of the actors that can contribute to solving the problem. finally, i would add that it is essential to pay due attention to future generations, to support student exchanges, the emuni university, cooperation between higher education institutions, higher education, cultural forums within the union for the mediterranean. this will raise the level of mutual understanding and connection.
i probably couldn't forgive myself if i missed this opportunity to congratulate my colleagues from estonia. estonia is among the transition countries that have achieved the best results in many areas over the past two decades. remember their great tax reform, very early in the 1990s, they liberalized the economic system in a way that other transition countries had failed to do. i am confident that estonia will be a strong pillar of the euro area, that it will act much more correctly than many other euro area members and that it will contribute its share to the stability of our common currency.
in one of my last talks, i pointed out a problem that has been proven by many studies. i am talking about a backsliding in the development of democracy within the european union, as well as on a global scale. today, i would like to point out that the same is true of the index that measures media freedom. even some developed countries are lagging behind, and even more so are some new members who are just establishing stable democracies. let me just mention the example of my country, slovenia, which has fallen seven places in the last year on the media freedom scale according to the "reporters without borders" survey, and three places according to the "freedom house" analysis. and in these countries, in transition countries, journalists are also the most vulnerable and they are the most vulnerable to the influence of media owners, political power and capital. they are vulnerable because of their precarious social position, because of their lack of professional competence or experience and so on. i believe that these general trends should not go unnoticed, and above all i call on the european commission and the member states to develop an effective strategy to fight for more media freedom, which is not only a pillar of democracy but also one of the fundamental human rights to be objectively informed.
i probably should have started this speech by asking you to hold a moment of silence for the fallen peacekeepers in the convoy, but time is always on our side here, and i just remember them that way. thank you, mrs ashton, for your statement, which was timely, and which has in fact restored the seriousness and dignity of the european union. it also raised hopes that the resolution we will adopt will also mark the beginning of a more consistent and active role for the european union in the middle east, a role based on respect for human life, the rule of law, international law and human rights, which are inalienable and apply to everyone. the magic word "two-state solution" has been uttered here several times, two states side by side. we need to look at what's really happening with this idea in the west bank as a whole, not just focusing on the gaza problem, because the whole is waiting for active politics.
on behalf of the alde group. since the korean war, there has been no incident more serious and more dangerous than the sinking of the south korean warship cheonan. although 46 sailors died in the attack, official seoul maintained dignity, reason, reacted with restraint, state-building, but decisive. the arms race, especially through the development of nuclear weapons, threatens the stability and peace of the korean peninsula and the wider region. we in alde sincerely regret this tragic event and express our condolences and solidarity to the korean government, the families of the deceased sailors and the entire korean people. seoul has allowed for a full and credible international investigation before identifying and charging the attacker. i got to see the ship myself. we commend the government of the republic of korea for its actions to date and strongly support its request that the incident be referred to the un security council. only dialogue and the resumption of six-party talks can allow the north to abandon its nuclear weapons development and to work towards a better future. improving inter-korean relations requires our help as well. we also know that the european union and south korea need to deepen and further develop their relations in the fields of international politics, economics, science, culture, education and to increase the exchange of students and young politicians. ratifying the fta would be the right message at this moment.
commissioner füle and rapporteur doris pack have rightly said that we have not received good news from bosnia and herzegovina in recent years. i think 2010 should be a turning point for bosnia. first, it needs to take advantage of the european union's willingness to liberalize visa requirements. it's the politicians' responsibility to do their job. second, bosnia and herzegovina should take advantage of the good circumstances in its neighbourhood. we now have governments in zagreb and belgrade that are in favour of a united, whole, undivided bosnia and herzegovina. third, the october elections are a great opportunity for bosnia and herzegovina to elect politicians who have the will and the ability to take bosnia and herzegovina forward. after the election, we need a new deal - a post-dayton deal that will ensure a country that works and a government that works. bosnia and herzegovina does not have this yet. and this agreement must ensure the long-term survival of bosnia and herzegovina, it must have international legal guarantees from the european union, the united nations and from zagreb and belgrade. we're willing to do whatever it takes to get there.
mr president, we propose an oral amendment to paragraph 9 that is factually incorrect. we would like to delete ‘world disarmament’ in the first line, as the six-party talks are not disarmament talks but denuclearisation talks. the final wording would then be ‘calls on the countries in the six-party talks to continue working together to ensure that the talks on ending the dprk nuclear programme are resumed’.
on sunday, july 11, it will be 15 years since the serbian army, under the command of general mladic, began to commit the most horrific crime against the civilian population in srebrenica on this continent since the end of world war ii. more than 8,000 men and boys, including children, were forcibly separated from their families and taken to killing centers. the extermination of the male population of a large area of eastern bosnia bordering serbia because they belonged to the bosniak ethnic community is a cruel crime. the srebrenica case is ethnic cleansing of the most terrible kind, a crime against humanity that was declared genocide by the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in 2001. the srebrenica genocide was also declared a genocide by the international court of justice in the hague in 2007. the potocari memorial center will be burying the largest number of identified remains of victims exhumed from a hidden mass grave to date. the 800 innocent victims of this cruel revenge will finally find peace. it is right that in the european parliament this week we remember these balkan horrors and demand once again that the commanders responsible be brought to justice and held accountable for their crimes.
yesterday we had a visitor to parliament who is not a diplomat and not a foreign policy expert. i'm talking about mr. john ging, the head of unrwa in gaza. he has told us more about the problem of gaza and the middle east than all the diplomats and special envoys headed by mr blair, who we don't know what he's doing there, with the foreign ministers who don't want to visit gaza, who don't want to deal with the real problems. i would like to say this: congratulations on the establishment of the service and thank you for the efforts you and your colleagues in this parliament have made to make it as efficient as possible. but it's only as valuable as it is creative, as much as it is intellectual output. and i wish you to be able to employ and command powerful squads of creative, self-reliant, intelligent people.
mr president, on monday morning there was an attempted assassination of our colleague, petar miletić, a member of the kosovo assembly. leader of the serb minority liberal party, samostalna liberalna stranka, mr miletić has become the symbol of cooperation and dialogue between the albanian majority and the serb community in kosovo. he is one of us: a parliamentarian. he is one of the leaders of the serbs in kosovo who participate actively in political life. this appears to be the sole reason for the attempt on his life by those who reject all relations with kosovo institutions. an attack on an mp anywhere amounts to an attack on democracy and this attack was aimed at the efforts to bring lasting stability in the region of western balkans. i see no difference between the assassination of the late prime minister of serbia, zoran đinđić, and this attempt. alarmingly, political resistance to modernisation and europeanisation has again turned to violence. we must be absolutely clear and firm in our reaction to this unfortunate event. only through fostering democratic dialogue and the european integration process, will there be any progress in albanian-serbian relations in kosovo.
the honourable commissioner štefan füle covers the area from morocco to azerbaijan. and we see that he's actually paying the most attention to the western balkans. i congratulate him on that and i thank him for that, because it's very important. the western balkans, from croatia to albania, kosovo and macedonia, lie at the heart of the european union. and we, the european union, must finally succeed in helping to stabilise it and raise the quality of life of its people. the problems in kosovo are not new. they were insoluble within the framework of the federal republic of yugoslavia, in serbia, and now this hot potato has passed into the hands of the european union. the international court's opinion, which is expected at the end of the month, should be used by belgrade and pristina to establish direct talks without preconditions. it is realistic that kosovo and serbia will be reunited once they are both in the european union. the point now is to speed up this process with the constructivity of belgrade and pristina and to make it last a short five or ten years, not a long twenty or thirty.
five years after the change of power in kyrgyzstan, we are facing a serious political crisis and its consequences in the wider region with a new coup. it is important that, despite the crisis, the constitutional amendment referendum, which will be followed by parliamentary elections in the autumn, has been peacefully and democratically held. in order to further stabilise the situation, it is necessary, in addition to democratic elections, to ensure an objective investigation of the causes of the tragic conflict in the south of the country, to work towards reconciliation between kyrgyzstan and uzbekistan, to prevent a further humanitarian catastrophe and to coordinate international aid effectively. at the same time, more attention than five years ago needs to be devoted to long-term assistance in the implementation of good governance. just helping the police or the judiciary is not enough. activities by the international community, including turkey, should also lead to the opening of the borders of kyrgyzstan with all neighbouring countries as soon as possible. i welcome the rapid engagement of the european union and am convinced that we can and must provide added value in the dynamics and efficiency of action. the humanitarian aspect of this crisis is evident, but we cannot solve it permanently unless we also act with a clear political concept. it is clear that kyrgyzstan needs extensive international assistance, that political changes following this referendum do not in themselves guarantee quick and good results, and that the crisis is not in the european union's interest at all. i hope we can succeed in that spirit.
mr president, on monday morning there was an assassination attempt on our colleague peter miletic, a member of the kosovo assembly and a group leader of the serb minority liberal party samostalna liberalna stranka. he was shot twice and wounded. he is one of us, a parliamentarian. an attack on an mp anywhere amounts to an attack on democracy. this attack was aimed at the efforts to bring lasting stability to the region of the western balkans. he is in intensive care in hospital in mitrovica. let us wish him a quick and full recovery and express to him our full political and human support. (applause)
thank you, chairman. i think that this report, which talks about fair incomes for farmers, is extremely necessary, particularly because farmers' prices have risen much faster, costs have risen much faster than farmers receive for their produce. in this case, the supermarket chains are the ones that don't actually lose anything in the process. i would like to say that the european union has always aimed at improving agricultural incomes, but we see that these criteria for developing the countryside are not possible to meet. the resources used for agriculture are increasing, but there is no result. farmers in several new eu member states, including latvia, are losing out to industrial producers and economically stronger european counterparts, whose countries can provide additional support. this also significantly delays the implementation of the european union's cohesion principle. i also very much welcome the fact that the report states that it is necessary to clarify the profits that the chains, the wholesalers, make at the expense of the farmers. thank you.
i voted in favour of the report on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. european solidarity is an abstract concept for many, but it is a mechanism that should benefit directly individual european citizens in times of need and difficulty. but it turns out the fund's not working well. i therefore expect the commission to take the request for a mid-term review of the operation of the fund and a review of the regulations seriously. however, i have reservations about the independence of the fund, as it is linked to its indefinite duration. i believe the fund is a political response to the current situation. the european union must promote employment through other instruments in the future. it must ensure the competitiveness of the european economy. we must be careful not to create a mechanism which gives a boost to those who will not adapt to the changing world situation, and i voted in that spirit.
the 1986 european directive on animal testing really needed updating. i'm not satisfied that the new bill still allows animal testing and allows for animal suffering. i voted for the directive anyway. why would you do that? for three main reasons. the first is that it only allows animal testing in cases where the welfare of humans outweighs the welfare of animals. it's about human dignity and the right to health and to treatment, to the best possible treatment. secondly, the new directive will use far fewer animals for testing than before. and third, the animals that will still be involved in the trials will have better living conditions, better care. but of course, i hope that animal testing will soon be completely unnecessary.
the export of modern french ships to russia has its own european and political dimension. it has its own dimension of solidarity or non-solidarity. it concerns our member states from the baltic region, it concerns our eastern partnership partners: georgia, azerbaijan, ukraine and so on. we know that france intervened in the russo-georgian war and that russia accepted, signed certain international obligations. does he respect them? for example, does it allow european union observers to go to south ossetia and abkhazia? not for a while, i'm afraid. we know that the council's common position of 2008 is very decisive. the importing country is expected to respect its international obligations, respect human rights and maintain peace, security and stability in the region. is russia doing all this? and the last question: is france, or president sarkozy, in a position to receive a return of service from moscow in the form of a real start to respecting russia's international obligations in exchange for this dubious sale of attack ships to russia, worth some 600 million euros?
the trend of restrictive laws in israel shows a growing gap between the ideal of israeli democracy as the only real middle eastern democracy, as we like to proudly point out, and the actual state of affairs, which, with all its undoubted democracy, is also the suppression of the legitimate rights of the neighboring palestinian people to self-determination, to their own state and freedom. because it is the policy of the state of israel, anyone, be it an individual, a non-governmental organization, who opposes it, is ultimately an enemy of israel in the truest sense of the word. it's difficult, impossible to be a democracy behind a high wall and at the same time oppressing another. it is an illusion. so israel will have to decide whether it will remain a democracy and develop democratically in a way that recognizes and enables the democratic rights of a neighboring people, the palestinians, or whether it will persist in its current policy of disabling those rights and gradually sink into its own undemocratic, closed-down, narrow-minded, xenophobic and oppressive civil society. such a policy towards the palestinians will, unfortunately, inevitably cost israel the destruction of its own israeli democracy.
there is no doubt that israel is a democratic state, but no state that is democratic is immune to undemocratic procedures and pressures. in this case, when it comes to pressure on non-governmental organisations in israel, it is about undemocratic procedures and we were alerted to them when we visited israel as a delegation and also in the several contacts i had myself in brussels, i became convinced of this. we're talking about one marriage here today. in fact, there are three laws that, in their own way, essentially put ngos and those who work with them in a dubious position, and that's not good for any democracy. as for the impact of our discussion here on the peace talks, i have to say that the most damaging thing to the peace talks so far has been foreign minister liberman's extremely unacceptable statement that israel will continue to build settlements in the occupied territories.
on behalf of the alde group. i am proud of the document that we have produced following successful trilateral negotiations with the council and the commission, and on behalf of alde i congratulate the rapporteur on her achievement, her persistence and her political courage. we have created a framework that is of great benefit to passengers, to the airline industry, to the general public, and is an example in the international arena. in the spring, after a constructive debate at tran, we produced a document which provided a good basis for a successful trialogue with the council and the commission. i also thank the association of pilots and air traffic controllers for their help and cooperation. in the last phase, parliament secured a decisive role in the further amendments to this legislation, as we prevented the possibility of amendments by so-called delegated acts. we want to prevent accidents, so we need to investigate the causes. a thorough and open investigation requires that key stakeholders are protected from premature conviction. it is crucial to define precisely the role of judicial inquiry in accident investigation. parliament insisted that, in order to ensure an independent investigation into the cause of the air crash, it was necessary to protect the technical investigation from the interference of the judicial inquiry. we also need to report and investigate all incidents, all of them, not just those that could end tragically. but an investigation is only possible when we know about the event, the incident. the commission's commitment to the revision of the events directive is also the result of the drafting of this regulation. jasa needs to be involved in the investigation, but we've made its role clear. the regulator is not an investigator but may have access to certain data and a role as an advisor. during the negotiations, the rapporteur paid particular attention to the rights of accident victims and managed to preserve all the essential elements.
i'd like to add one element that i missed earlier due to lack of time and that concerns informing relatives. relatives should be treated equally and not be discriminated against. the definition of family varies widely between member states. parliament also wanted to protect same-sex partnerships, which are recognised in some countries but not in others. my group proposed a compromise which was accepted by the council and the commission, so that the definition of family now applies in the country of the victim, in the country of the victim's nationality. this is a major achievement and a major compromise. the second thing that is particularly important is that we did not invent new institutions, but we used a network of national investigative bodies that we effectively linked together.
this weekend, heavy rains hit slovenia, causing major flooding and severe economic damage. in many places, the river's flows have exceeded the flows of centuries. we also have fatalities, and all the drowned people lost their lives in cars that were left in the undercarriage. in the capital city of ljubljana alone, more than 1,200 residential buildings are still under water. transport and public services are also severely affected. slovenia is a small country, but the consequences are comparable to the catastrophic consequences that already affected some central european countries earlier this year. i took the opportunity to inform you of this because i believe that the removal of the consequences will also have a lot of work to do in the european parliament.
bitterness, anger, disappointment are the words i can use to sum up the feelings of most slovenes and slovenians on their first appointments to high positions in european diplomacy. this is not only because slovenia has dropped out of the first round of appointments, but also because only four representatives from the newer eu members will be appointed to the 29 senior posts. i don't believe there are no qualified candidates in these. on the contrary, i am convinced that the drive and ambition of the younger members is even greater. yet the highest positions in the european institutions are still largely held by representatives of the largest countries. i am firmly opposed to a european policy which does not give political consideration to the interests of the younger, new members. we are in the union to make decisions together. let this be a criticism and a warning to our governments. this is no time for new discord and breach of trust. people will only believe us if we are strong and united from within, and only if our voice is the collective voice of 27 countries and not just a few.
today we are discussing perhaps one of the most important documents of this plenary session. many of our citizens were frozen in the middle of the worst winter of 2009 and their ovens remained cold. it is in the event of an emergency, when europe's gas supply is seriously disrupted, that european solidarity can be demonstrated and demonstrated. this regulation is proof that we put the well-being of the individual at the heart of our actions. the regulation defines all households connected to the gas network as protected customers. this regulation should provide for measures to ensure that they are sufficiently powered even in the event of an emergency. this means that we need to strengthen infrastructure both within the member states and between them. we also need to make sure that the gas taps work, so that the pipelines work in both directions. we must also ensure that there is an effective plan of preventive measures in case of emergencies. i would like to encourage the european commission to insist that member states comply with the requirements of the regulation in a timely manner. i am glad that the rapporteur has also listened to the arguments of individual countries and taken account of their specificities. the solutions are thus also appropriate for slovenia, where the existing combination of russian and algerian gas supply is sufficient to achieve a standard supply despite the shortcomings of the n-1 standard. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr alejo vidal-quadras, on his skillful conduct of the negotiations in parliament and between the institutions. he's done a really great job, which i hope will be supported by a very large majority on the ballot.
i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of union legislation on the conservation of biodiversity. the report makes many good demands, but the key finding is that the results are not being achieved because of a lack of political will. this is also the reason why legislation is not properly implemented, data is missing, verification is insufficient, funding is insufficient, integration into sectoral policies is poor. we need much clearer reporting, both on good practices and on countries that are failing in this area. the european commission should not be political in this matter, but strictly professional. we must protect nature and the future of humanity, not the governments of individual member states.
president van rompuy, i would like to remind you that we are about to attend two important international conferences on the environment: one in japan in october on biodiversity and the other later this year on climate change. both are being conducted under the auspices of the united nations and require the active role of the european union, while at the same time ensuring that international findings, positions are in line with the european union's guidelines. we all know that, but we also know what happened in copenhagen, when europe put forward several positions, different positions, and that was not good for the negotiations themselves. i would therefore like to ask you what the council actually thinks about the need to speak with one voice, and i wonder whether the heads of government are prepared to make any concrete commitments in this regard.
the disaster in the gulf of mexico is terrifying. it shows a lack of safety standards and a lack of effective post-accident response. although it happened in the united states, so within the framework of american legal requirements and standards, we all need to learn from it and prevent any similar accidents. but we must take into account the realities of the situation. in my view, european legislation already prevents similar events from occurring in the union, because it is stricter, more demanding than american legislation. that is why i say that we in the union are in no hurry. we don't need time pressure, but we need to do an in-depth expert analysis of the causes and consequences of the gulf of mexico disaster. on this basis, we will develop any new requirements and measures. i am disturbed by the text in the resolution which creates panic, such as 'as early as possible', and i am also against the moratorium on oil drilling. but i agree that we must ensure that the law is enforced to the highest standards and that we must ensure that fair compensation is provided in the event of accidents. above all, we must act beyond our borders. it doesn't matter if it's polluted american, european or any other sea. in such disasters, the world as a whole is more polluted, animals and plants die from pollution, and people suffer. we must therefore do what is most difficult to achieve high international standards, not just tightening within european borders. on the contrary, i think we should act quickly in the event of an accident in hungary, because it happened within our borders. we urgently need answers to the questions: what is a dense red substance, is it really dangerous to health, is it really not on the european list of hazardous waste and how can we prevent similar accidents?
the reporter. - mr president of the parliament, representatives of the european commission, commissioner malmström and of course the council, ladies and gentlemen, i will try to make the most of four minutes now and perhaps two more at the end, if necessary. albania and bosnia and herzegovina have fulfilled all the conditions and are ready to grant visa-free travel. this has been confirmed by the european commission, and we confirmed this last week in the libe committee without a vote. the expectations of the albanian and bosnian public that we will be giving the green light here in the european parliament tomorrow are justified and deserved. i welcome to the gallery the minister for foreign affairs of bosnia and herzegovina, sven alkalaj, and the president of the albanian parliament, jozefina topalli, who are closely following the developments. it's time to send a message to the countries: yes, we are ready for you, you have met the conditions. we will break down the visa walls that have divided the countries of the western balkans for too long. we have worked hard for this common objective for a long time and i thank all my colleagues, especially the european commission and the council, for their cooperation, and i am glad that my country, slovenia, has played a very important role in this. the european union sometimes seems much further away to people in bosnia and herzegovina and albania than it really is. and visa liberalisation will bring us one step closer - a very important step towards building trust between people and continuing the much needed reforms on the way to full membership. albania and bosnia and herzegovina have ensured border security, ensured the security of biometric passports and made important steps in the fight against corruption and organised crime. last year, the eu lifted visa requirements for macedonia, serbia and montenegro, and the joy was indescribable. logically, up until about 20 years ago, citizens of the western balkans could travel to the west without a visa. and i don't think this is a diplomatic gift. it is now our duty, the duty of the union, to keep our promise. our credibility and the credibility of the european union are at stake. i would remind you that last november our institution, together with the council of the european union, undertook to deal with the abolition of visas for albania and bosnia and herzegovina by an expedited procedure, once the countries fulfilled the conditions. so i'm calling on you to support the report tomorrow, so that we can send a really positive message to both countries. people deserve it more than ever. and we have no reason to believe otherwise. i am confident that our european governments will follow suit very soon. ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the commission and the council, let us do our best and perhaps take a further step to enable the citizens of albania and bosnia and herzegovina to travel freely before the catholic christmas, that is, before the end of this year, so that they can visit their relatives and friends during the holidays. we did that last year in the case of macedonia, serbia and montenegro, and i think that with the great will that we have, we are able to do that again this year. and i can only add that our yes in the european parliament tomorrow will be a recognition of the very hard work that has been done in both countries, bosnia and herzegovina and albania. they have met all the conditions, that is the decisive criterion for us, and i think that this recognition will be a very good trip for all the countries of the western balkans, that the effort will pay off.
congratulations, tanja, madam commissioner, and to you, my dear. let us be clear about why albania and bosnia and herzegovina failed last year to lift the visa requirement for their citizens. they have not completed their domestic political tasks of responsibility to the citizens. this is why the parliaments and governments of these countries have successfully passed the corrective examinations this year. they were able to do so only at the last moment, which still causes some doubts. we in alde look forward to the visa waiver and say that the citizens of albania and bosnia and herzegovina are our friends, our partners and our dear neighbours. they are welcome to come and visit us and their relatives, who are working hard with us to build a common, better, richer and wider european union. the decision to abolish visas in the european parliament is our common achievement, an important political and a sincere human message. visa waivers are for the people, not for the politicians. both governments must continue to convince the eu's interior ministers that they are fully committed to implementing and strictly respecting the rules and commitments they have made.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you very much for this debate. i feel a very powerful support for the commission proposal to grant visa freedom to the citizens of bosnia and albania and i think that is a very good thing. hopefully there will be a big majority tomorrow in the plenary and that will send a signal to the people of these two countries that the elected members of the european parliament strongly support their wish to travel more freely in the european union. i can reassure you once again that the benchmarks have been met. we have been monitoring very closely. we will of course remain in contact and monitor this, but they have been fulfilled. all countries must be treated equally. the benchmarks are clear and are very transparent. the process has been as transparent as possible. a few words on kosovo before i end. kosovo is not forgotten. kosovo is, of course, also a very important partner in this. they have made a lot of progress but still, in order to be credible, the commission has to watch over all the benchmarks and all the conditions if we want to have credibility and legitimacy for this process. kosovo is not ready. we are working with them. i know that they are making great efforts on the government side on readmission and on the reintegration of forced returnees. they need to do more. once these conditions are met, we are of course ready to enter into a more formal visa dialogue with them. in the meantime we can only encourage member states to use all the facilities provided by the revised visa code when they are addressing the visa applications submitted by kosovo citizens. so, rapporteur, thank you for this very fruitful and very encouraging debate and i look forward to a very strong vote tomorrow in plenary.
the reporter. − i am very pleased that the vast majority in this room, with a few exceptions who even admit that they are clearly not familiar with the situation in the countries, agree that it is time to support the abolition of visa walls in the western balkans. it is true, as we have heard several times, that criminals, those who have money, have already found ways to travel, and tomorrow in the european parliament we will decide on the fate of ordinary people, on mobility, especially young people and students. a whole generation has grown up behind the visa walls and the serious problem, as we have mentioned, will remain kosovo. we must find a solution for the people as soon as possible, because their isolation and frustration will only get worse. and, commissioner, we need clear guidelines for the authorities in kosovo to get to work. and also, the people in albania and bosnia and herzegovina are much more aware today, because of the massive information campaign, of what visa abolition means, that visa abolition in the european union is not about giving away jobs, and it's not about giving away the right to asylum or citizenship and so on. we are offering a fundamental right of every european citizen - the right to free movement - which will be a great and important step towards the european union for citizens in bosnia and herzegovina and albania and the western balkans in general. i will conclude by saying that what we are doing tomorrow, and what we did last november, is important for all of us, important for strengthening economic and political cooperation, not just in the region, for the european union. but it's especially important for relationships between people who live, i might say, just a few miles away from us. we'll let them know we're serious and that they have a clear european perspective. people expect us to do that in albania and bosnia and herzegovina. i think they're expecting this message tomorrow.
rapporteur. − mr president, we have a very important vote ahead of us and i would kindly ask colleagues to lend strong support to granting a visa-free regime to bosnia-herzegovina and albania. those countries deserve it. i would like to welcome the foreign minister of bosnia-herzegovina, mr sven alkalaj, and the president of the albanian parliament, jozefina topalli. it is they who will deliver the positive news from our institution. (applause)
we need a strong european union of 27 not just a minority. we wish the european joint service all the best. it is needed by the citizens of europe, it is needed by the european union, it is needed by the council. how can we ensure that the european external action service is a home for all citizens of the european union? to be effective, successful and truly the crème de la crème of europe? only by having diplomats from all, i repeat, all the nationalities of the european union. there is no greater attack on the strength and unity of the european union than the fact that the eu is represented by citizens of only six nationalities. two-thirds of the current job, which mrs. ashton inherited, is from just six states. what about the other 21? what about the new members? i therefore regret that we will not adopt the provisions adopted by both the afet and the budg, and would thus ensure that we will at least in ten years, i repeat in ten years, correct the worst imbalance. we need a strong european union of all 27.
the search for compromises on the financial basis of the joint service was as complex as europe is complex. it's going to be hard to reconcile interests in each case because we're different and we have different histories. but the fact is that intelligence, experience, wisdom and goodwill are surely distributed proportionally across europe, and this is the foundation that actually binds us together and opens up our future. i think it would be a great achievement if we paid as much attention to the future of foreign policy, to the role of europe in foreign policy on a global scale, as we have paid to finance. the fact is that this office will not be creating foreign policy, it will be creating foreign policy, mrs ashton, in cooperation with other actors, among whom, i assure you, there is a great deal of interest in this parliament, and i wish you, of course, much success in your work.
i am pleased and glad that we are trying to tackle this issue of poverty and social exclusion at the level of the european institutions. this is very important. the resolution we are about to adopt is a good one, and it describes the situation well, but it is a little less successful in finding solutions. the minimum income can only be one of the forms that already exist in different variants and forms in the member states, in their social policies. but i also found in the material a proposal for a universal basic income or an unconditional income for everyone. this is also questionable from the point of view of social eligibility. it's not good that everyone gets some basic income for a normal life, because then it runs out for those who really need social assistance. i hope that in this plenary session (the president interrupted)
i understand that the budget must be adopted, i understand the debate, that it must not be bloated, that it must be rational. i do not understand why the council did not make more efforts to coordinate the budget, the budget lines, with parliament at that time, after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. i too understand that some areas of the common policy are shrinking, but i do not understand why the so-called soft policies, in particular education and mobility, are also falling victim to this shrinkage. as you know, we started the erasmus programme in 1987 and at that time there were 3,000 students participating in the programme. in 2012, this figure is expected to rise to 3 million, and by 2020, we plan to have as many as 15 million student exchanges. because mobility can achieve, consolidate the european dimension and also improve the quality of education systems and skills in general. so how do we achieve such ambitious goals as we set ourselves in the europe 2020 strategy, while at the same time cutting back on resources in these areas?
we must do everything we can to prevent such accidents. i therefore expect the european commission to find out why accidents within the union continue to occur and to take appropriate action. we certainly need to take more seriously the implementation of legislation already adopted. in fact, studies of individual accidents show that they were also caused by negligence and disregard for the law. in general, the implementation of environmental legislation in the union is extremely weak. furthermore, i expect the commission to provide information on the cross-border threat to people from the accident in hungary in the future. for example, will toxic substances be released into the air and will inhalation endanger the people of neighboring countries, such as my country, slovenia? furthermore, we must ensure greater responsibility for polluters and strictly enforce the polluter pays principle. the use of public funds to repair damage and to assist the population must be a last resort within the framework of the principle of solidarity. in this way too, we must encourage the owners of capital to ensure their safe operation.
in writing. − the els group stressed that many of the proposed requirements (amendments) go beyond the scope and purpose of the directive. i agree with them, but i made an exception in my decision this time. the position of women in the eu in terms of employment, pay, exposure to poverty, etc. is substantially worse than that of men. i believe that equal opportunities is one of the fundamental principles of the eu's work and i will use every opportunity to ensure that women and men are treated equally. today's vote is not the last, but it will provide a strong bargaining chip for the council's negotiations.
ukraine is a large and important partner country of the european union, a country with an unquestionable european future. i think the worst service we can do to this country with its complicated internal structure and difficult history is to talk about it as the subject of our inter-party or ideological bidding. so i think that every document that we accept has to be well thought out, well, well balanced. the opposition of yesterday is the government of today, as in any other country where there are democratic elections, so it is understandable that the opposition is unhappy because it is losing power. but she'll get her chance when the time is right and if the voters judge that to be the case. i think it's wrong for us to feed on the arguments of one side, but above all i would also like to say that i trust... (the president cut off his speech)
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent work. taiwan can be a success story. i have just returned from a visit to this island, which already has several cooperation agreements with the european union. twenty-seven is the largest investor in taiwan's fast-growing economy economic growth is forecast to reach almost nine percent this year, with unemployment below six percent. the visa waiver for taiwan will strengthen economic and political relations with the union, increase investment and facilitate mobility, in particular of young people and students. the biggest threat to taiwan, as we've heard, is still china, but in recent years, relations with china have softened somewhat, especially in the economic sphere. taiwan is not internationally recognised, nor is it recognised by the european union, but citizens of 24 member states can already travel to the island without a visa, and soon taiwan will also lift visas for bulgaria, romania and cyprus. the taiwanese government has taken a number of important steps to ensure the security of passports, as we were able to see on the spot during our visit to the documentation office. the authorities have no problem with illegal immigration, illegal trade in people and goods. there is no organized crime in the cities, and people are generally content with their lives. in the last year, the union has abolished visas for five western balkan countries. this monday, ministers took an important decision for albania and bosnia and herzegovina, which is a very important message to those countries, especially those who are knocking at the door of the union, that they have a clear european perspective. free travel is a fundamental human right and i am convinced that this is the only way forward, even if taiwan does not pose a threat to the union. so i call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the abolition of visas tomorrow and allow the people of taiwan to travel freely.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, allow me to join in this debate briefly. to me, things are relatively clear: who is to blame for the great crisis that has arisen? this is part of the banking sector that has operated without real collateral and has taken too many risks. and the other part was european governments that were encouraging over-consumption and encouraging some sort of distributive mentality among the people. two types of speeches can also be heard here today: one calling for greater solidarity, for help, and the other seeking to appeal above all for greater responsibility, also in times of crisis. it would not be right for those who caused this great crisis to also look for a formula for a solution, a way out of this crisis. those who criticize excessive saving are surely on the wrong track. it would be right for those taxpayers from those countries and those countries that are dealing with the situation to not be silenced in these circumstances.
mr commissioner, today we are committing ourselves to the development of energy by 2020, but that is far too short a time. the procedures for placing energy facilities in space take several years. the construction of the grid and the power plant also takes time. the life span of such objects is decades. investors therefore need fairly stable policy guidance over a much longer period. if we are to achieve climate change and sustainable energy goals, we need to set the policy framework much further into the future. we need an energy strategy document at least until 2050. nuclear energy is increasingly present as one of the energy sources of the future and i would therefore like to highlight three tasks which i see ahead of us at european level in this respect. first, we must ensure that nuclear power plants are safely decommissioned and that radioactive waste is disposed of in accordance with the polluter pays principle. secondly, we need to ensure that new power plants are built to the highest possible safety standards through effective and transparent procedures. we can do this by introducing minimum standards for the approval and validation of the design of new nuclear power plants. moreover, we need to consider licensing new types of nuclear power plants at european level. this could benefit from the synergies of knowledge and help countries that are just starting to use nuclear energy and those with objectively smaller administrative bodies. and thirdly, we need to bring more democracy to nuclear decision-making. nuclear energy is just one of many possible energy sources and the decision-making processes must be the same as for coal, renewables, gas and oil. the european parliament must be given co-decision powers. the euratom treaty does not have to be opened, but we can do so by an interinstitutional agreement.
madam commissioner, dear colleagues and colleagues. the gap between the expectations and the results achieved at the copenhagen conference was unacceptably large, and it required us to make some changes. this time we're going to cancun with much more realistic but still ambitious goals. commissioner, you have made the union much better prepared for the climate conference this time, and i thank you for that. i would like to comment on a few other amendments tabled. the copenhagen accord has produced some important results, and one of them is certainly the decision that we must act to limit global temperature rise to below 2 ̊c. we must stick to that goal, and the moment is not right to change it, even to a lower value. we have to remain credible. decisions of this magnitude cannot be changed from year to year. i also want to respond to proposals for the union to unilaterally reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 30%. i think we should not go too far away from third countries again. we'll raise the target, and we need to raise it, but only when the circumstances are right. we must ensure that the procedure for this decision is defined in advance and that the european parliament is also properly involved in the decision-making process. there is also a need to promote the development and use of clean technologies at global level. the agreement on technology transfer is of great importance, and we must also take appropriate steps to protect intellectual property. only then will climate change be an opportunity and not a burden. finally, on the issue of financing climate efforts of developing countries, i would like to emphasise that we already have a financial mechanism in place in the european union, i.e. the european emissions trading scheme, the so-called ets. it is necessary to ensure their proper functioning, efficiency and the transparent and targeted mobilisation of funds. i do not think it is appropriate to create new financial burdens in a time of financial and economic crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. madam vice-president, mr commissioner, this debate and the resolution we are voting on tomorrow were triggered by incidents: the death of a 14-year-old boy killed by a moroccan policeman, and a few days later the violent demolition of a protest camp for more than ten thousand indigenous people of western sahara who wanted to peacefully alert the world, including us, to the intolerability of their social, political and economic situation. this incident has caused new human casualties, which we regret. they paid the highest possible tax on an open and all-knowing problem. western sahara is the last example in the world where the decolonization process has not been completed and where the neighboring country continues to enjoy the benefits of the illegal occupation of foreign territory, rejects security council resolutions, ignores the repetitive rhythm and ritual of the un demand for the organization of a referendum and the free self-determination of the people of western sahara, violates human rights, norms of international law. the western sahara, sand and rock, cut by a wall of shame over a thousand kilometres long, is rich enough to arouse the appetites and expectations of morocco and those countries that actively and passively support its uncompromising position. we know them. the problem of western sahara is a political problem, a problem of decolonization. it can only be solved in one way, and in the same way that similar issues have been solved elsewhere, on the basis of international law, the self-determination of nations and treaties. the role of the united nations in western sahara must be strengthened, minur's mandate is too narrow, the mission is only to administer the status quo, it is impotent and purely formal. commissioner, thank you very much for your clear words. despite the divergent interests of some influential members, or precisely because of this, the european union must play a more active role and use all the means at its disposal to do so. morocco, which enjoys the support and understanding of many, will also have to make efforts to find a constructive solution to the problem.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. explanation: how many voices in the ep demanded that the eu speak with one voice in cancún? today's vote has shown that the ep cannot do that. one of the eu's key negotiating outcomes is that we do not unilaterally take on new commitments. the ep rejected it by a slim majority. that's why i voted against the resolution. i hope commissioner hedegaard will stick to the prepared exits.
i would like us to listen in this chamber of the european parliament today and to somehow accept the warning addressed to the world public by 26 former senior statesmen of the european union, and it concerns the middle east peace process. these are personalities who, by their very nature, enjoy international authority and can also secure publicity. but i think it is right that in this european parliament we should pay particular attention to the work that calls for us to make a greater effort to strengthen the peace process and, if necessary, to take a more firm stand on how to bring israel to the negotiating table and ensure peace not only in the region but also for the state of israel and its people.
first of all, congratulations to our colleague gál, who has prepared a good report. it is true that a new situation has arisen in the european union in the protection of human rights. i think the field of freedom is expanding, and that's a good thing. the report is quite modernist, modern, even talks about the third generation of human rights and so on. however, the protection of human rights and freedoms also involves the correction of past wrongs. we have highlighted many of the so-called third generation rights in the text, but we have forgotten questions such as the return of property to people who were dispossessed by totalitarian regimes, or the question of burial, the dignified burial of people who were barbarically killed in the year 1945 in many ad hoc cemeteries in central and eastern europe. and that's why we, the generation that decides here, the political generation, the current generation, have a responsibility to right these wrongs that have happened in the past. only then will we be able to speak with a clear conscience about the new or so-called third generation of human rights and freedoms for the present and the future.
i woke up on saturday morning with a great deal of relief, because i learned that both agreements had been accepted, and that, of course, gives me faith that it is still possible to stop global warming below two degrees celsius. but it is still a bitter taste, of course, because the negotiation process itself in the international community is much too slow and such an agreement should have been adopted at least a year ago. so we're in a big time crunch now, a big time crunch mainly because we still don't have the numbers, we still don't have concrete commitments on how countries will reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. the positive aspect is that the document is comprehensive and covers all the priority areas that the european union had defined before the negotiations began. my assessment is that the european union has been successful in its negotiations and has been ambitious enough. because it was precisely the ambition that kept it in this leading role and that encouraged the negotiations. because if we were too ambitious, the rest of us would be voted out, as happened to us last year. and i think we've learned a lot from last year, and i want to see that you take that knowledge into the next negotiations next year and don't change those strategies. this year we have a very difficult task ahead of us, particularly in our relations with third countries, and here i think the union must use all the opportunities it has to help the united states of america to be able to promise considerably more next year than this year. we ourselves, within the union, must concentrate on implementing the legislation we have adopted over the last few years, because there are many innovations that we must actually start implementing. the european union is still the only region in the world that has legislated to limit its emissions.
europeans live in an interesting paradox. on the one hand, the euro has proved to be the world's most stable currency in its 12 years of existence. the average inflation rate, according to official figures from the frankfurt central bank, was 1,97%, i.e. only 300% below the 2% target. the value of the euro against the dollar is virtually always higher than it was at the time of the creation of the single european currency. on the other hand, we have heard recently that there is even a danger of the euro collapsing. how did we get into this situation? the abnormal behavior of populist politicians, left and right, the irresponsible behavior has led us to this. are we really going to allow democracy to prove weaker than more authoritarian regimes in defending their currency? we need to be responsible, we need the five golden rules of responsible behavior of our politicians. let us adopt them here in parliament, let us define the criteria by which we will measure the responsible and solidarity-based behaviour of our policies in the member states. the key pillars are the financial transaction tax and the eurobond. it is our duty today to accept them in defence of our common currency.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you for remembering ambassador richard holbrook. it is right that we remember him today as we speak of afghanistan, and thank him for what he has done for peace. the council, the european union and all of us in afghanistan have a problem that could have been dealt with at other times and by other methods, relatively quickly and efficiently. today it is clear that there is no military solution to this problem - as we seek other ways. and this report, by a sensitive expert on afghanistan and the darker side of world politics, professor pino arlacchi, also points in a different direction. but every day, new victims are being killed, civilians and fighters in uniform. the report looks at the data on misinvestment, the misuse and abuse of humanitarian aid, the profits of international drug trafficking networks, the illusions of military leaders. it is clear today that the presence of al qaeda in afghanistan is no longer the central problem. but there is a problem that is spreading the field of international terrorism to neighboring countries and regions the longer the conflict in afghanistan continues. the report recalls that real and long-term solutions in afghanistan, such as bringing human rights, the status of women and the perspectives of children closer to our familiar standards, can only be achieved with the active and strong participation of the afghan authorities, religious leaders and civil society. they need to be trusted more than ever to be able to build a society and a state on foundations that are close to their perception of freedom and their traditions and values. this report is a deliberate attempt to define the key problems and possible solutions for afghanistan. the report is an incentive for a responsible and creative european union policy in afghanistan.
i would like to congratulate my colleague arlacchi on his courageous report. today, as we rightly commemorate diplomat holbrooke and his work for peace, particularly in the balkans, let me quote his statement on the money spent on the war on drugs in afghanistan ($1.61 billion). the most wasteful and ineffective program i have seen in and out of government. end quote from the esteemed diplomat holbrook. it's the same with everything in these unfortunate ten years of war in afghanistan. i don't have time to go into why we fell into this trap of the bush administration, but the fact is that our citizens expect us to end this madness that has cost us over 300 billion euros and countless human lives. if some people were willing to risk this war in 2001, now is the time to take the tough gamble of peace. that's what our citizens expect, and they expect a political solution and less faith in a military solution.
it is good that i have been given the floor before my luxembourg colleague, mr goerens, because otherwise my main point would have been undermined, namely that we have been speaking here for half an hour with members from mainly south-east europe. this means that the problem of security, the problem of nato and its relationship with the european union is a little more sensitive here than elsewhere. and that is why i would like to say that the lisbon summit has missed the opportunity to take a more principled, clearer and more decisive stand on the desire of the two countries of south-eastern europe, macedonia and bosnia-herzegovina, to strengthen their security by joining at least one euro-atlantic integration. we used to say any kind of integration when we were approaching integration in slovenia. then he has a chance to correct the mistakes that are happening in the european union. i think that's something to consider.
