yemen is not just a safe haven for al-qaeda. that has been made clear in the debate here. it could well become a battleground between two of the region's major powers, saudi arabia and iran. the yemeni government has repeatedly accused iran of supporting the shiite rebel movement. this is denied by iran, but the allegations are actually also found in saudi media. the evidence for this is the claim by the yemeni government that it stopped an iranian arms shipment to the rebel movement in october 2009 and the fact that in recent months the iranian state media has monitored the shia rebel movement's struggle more intensely and sympathetically than before. 82 saudi soldiers have died in the fighting with the rebels in yemen since saudi arabia launched its offensive on november 4, 2009. yemen is, as noted here, the poorest country in the arab world, but it has also been caught between the shields of the regional superpowers iran and saudi arabia. i wonder if catherine ashton could confirm that and also do an analysis of the situation?
of course, there is talk of violence and terrible horrors when iraq is discussed, but there is undoubtedly a process of democratization in iraq. i would remind you that in the local elections in iraq last year, 3,912 women ran openly. so, roughly ten women ran for each seat. it must be seen as something positive, especially for being in an arab country. this also gave us hope for this year's parliamentary elections on 7 march. not least because the sunnis participated in the local elections. but, as already mentioned here, two weeks ago a government commission refused to allow 14 sunni parties and several hundred people to participate in the elections. among those concerned are the minister of defence, abd al-kaddid al-obeidi, and saleh al-mutlaq, chairman of the sunni national dialogue party. the iraqi parliamentary elections are of course very crucial for the future of the country and for how we will proceed with the democratization of iraq, not least with regard to iraq's ethnic and religious cohesion. i would also like to stress that it is a matter of speaking out clearly about the treatment of ethnic and religious minorities in iraq. the iraqi parliamentary elections, as i said, are decisive for how we look at iraq in the future. what does the eu's high representative for foreign affairs, catherine ashton, think the eu can do to make the upcoming parliamentary elections in iraq more inclusive and democratic?
writer. - as we all know, trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious and most serious crimes in the world. that is why it is very boring to debate this important issue so late at night in front of an empty hall with no audience and no journalists. in 1850, slavery was officially banned throughout europe. yet, nearly 200 years later, hundreds of thousands of people are victims of modern slavery, the human trafficking of europe. the european parliament and the other eu institutions have a huge responsibility to combat and stop modern slavery, which takes many forms, such as forced labour, sex slavery, organ trafficking, adoption and begging. that is why i am pleased that we are debating this important issue tonight. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for the good cooperation so far and i hope that together we can finally reach a joint resolution in the end. i also hope that the new commission will soon present a directive on trafficking in human beings, a directive which is stronger and more far-reaching than the old commission's proposal, which was good in itself. to tackle the problem of trafficking in human beings we need a holistic approach that takes into account all the policies involved, i.e. not only criminal law but also migration. we also need to have proper sanctions that really reflect the gravity of the crime and that bite the skin off those who make money off of human trafficking. we must ensure that victims receive better assistance and protection, that special attention is paid to minors and that there is a need for better coordination within the eu institutions. but to really tackle the problem of trafficking in human beings, all member states must put a lot of effort into prevention, and that means, in general, reducing the demand for services from victims of trafficking in human beings in our countries. if we can reduce demand, then the supply of services will also decrease. finally, i would like to appeal to the council, the commission, the european parliament, the member states and the other eu institutions: let us now work together to put an end to modern slavery, human trafficking in europe!
if there was no demand for exploiting people as cheap labor, if there was no demand for organs, if there was no demand for buying sexual services, in such a world we would not have human trafficking either. demand is a key word in the fight against trafficking in human beings. another important factor is that in many parts of the world people live in poverty and in inhuman conditions, and they are thus easy prey for those who want to trade and buy people. so we need both action to reduce demand and, of course, prevention by improving the living conditions of many people in the parts of the world where the victims are recruited. i and the united left would like to thank anna hedh and edit bauer and my colleagues from the libe and femm committees. i would like to see some different proposals on how to support victims of trafficking in human beings. different measures and support are needed for victims of forced labour compared to victims of sex slavery.
slavery has not yet been abolished, as many of my colleagues have already pointed out. modern day slavery is spelled sex trade, and it's happening right here, right now. the bodies of women, girls and boys are sold like pieces of meat on plates like any other commodity, and it happens all the time. people are being deprived of their most basic human rights and are becoming modern slaves all over our member states. this could be europe's greatest failure and failure of all time and it must be tackled by limiting and stopping supply and demand. in my home country of sweden, it is forbidden by law to buy sex and that law has been in force for 10 years this year. the law is important because it shows society that no human being is for sale. the slave trade to america was outlawed in 1807, but it still continues in the midst of us in europe. it's time to put it in the dark recesses of history. it is our time and our responsibility to do everything, and with these words i would like to thank the authors anna hedh and edit bauer for their very fine work which benefits us all.
thank you for a strong social agenda we will support you with it all the way. i have two questions. the first concerns the copenhagen summit. it was a failure and the question is how we can now take back the initiative in the fight against climate change. can spain lay the foundations for a binding climate agreement in mexico, where we do not deepen the gap between the world's poor countries and the world's richer countries? for example, is it possible to try to secure funding for climate action that does not take money from the regular eu aid for poverty reduction? that would be an important matter for the spanish presidency. as for the social pact, it sounds very exciting. but there is a serious problem: there is no longer a sensible balance between europe's workers and europe's employers. we have a posting directive which has upset that balance and which puts such a social pact at risk. there will be too much wage dumping and too much crude exploitation.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. the copenhagen summit was a failure. the gap between the richest and poorest countries of the world widened, and neither the swedish presidency nor the danish prime minister were able to prevent or prevent this. europe was, as a colleague has just said, absent. after this disappointment, it's important to take back the initiative. it is not enough, of course, for the candidate for climate commissioner, connie hedegaard, to refuse to admit that the copenhagen summit was a failure. on the contrary, it increases the likelihood of repeating the mistakes. how will the spanish presidency and the commission create the conditions for a binding climate agreement in mexico? will you secure the funding for the new climate action in the developing countries, so that it is not just a repackaging of aid to go to poverty reduction and so on? will you propose that the own emission reductions be increased from 20 to 30 per cent? that would be taking back the initiative. will you dispel the distrust of the developing countries by highlighting the value of the kyoto protocol as a basis for further work on a global climate agreement?
the copenhagen meeting was undoubtedly a great disappointment, but now it is important to look ahead. we liberals do that, and i hope we can do that together in europe. we need a strategy and we need a post-copenhagen agenda. an important instrument to achieve this is continued investment in the emissions trading system. the eu should immediately enter into negotiations with the us to integrate the emerging us system with the european one. a transatlantic market for carbon emissions could be the start of a global market. olli rehn gave a very good opening speech. he's absolutely right in his conclusion. the eu must have a voice in these negotiations. but it should be remembered that the european parliament now has influence over the way these decisions are taken, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. parliament must be involved in the preparatory work, because a final agreement requires our approval. at the same time, in europe we must continue to strengthen our own carbon market and stop giving away free trade rights. we must invest in new technology and, thirdly, we must set a price floor for carbon dioxide. market mechanisms can achieve climate goals, not more bureaucracy. if we are to put the copenhagen summit behind us, take new steps and put all our energy into future action, we must first focus on europe 2020. the measures are there and we must have strong proposals on energy efficiency and how we invest in new technologies. we need to have a climate jobs strategy. finally, a 30% reduction in co2 emissions is a given if we are to win not only the battle over climate but also the battle over markets.
madam president, i wish to start by welcoming the statements by the commission and the council and to thank, congratulate and salute commissioner olli rehn for his personal commitment to the membership of turkey in the european union. eu-turkey relations go back a long way and are mutually beneficial. like other candidate countries, of course, turkey also has to comply with the principles of democracy, freedom and human rights and to adopt its legislative system to the acquis communautaire. i would like to join my colleagues who have welcomed the progress made by turkey so far, but also to recognise that a number of hindrances remain on turkey’s road to accession: freedom of expression and the rights of the kurdish minority, described by colleagues, are examples. i wish also to express my concern in relation to the decision by the turkish constitutional court to close the democratic society party and to ban a number of its democratically elected representatives, but this should not be a reason to delay the accession negotiations with turkey. the european perspective is a driving force for democratic reforms. the lack of our commitment would send a negative signal to the turkish people. our uncertainty has a cost. it could undermine the democratic process under way. eu policy should never be driven by fear. we europeans should support the reforms. they will take time, they will be complex and there will be setbacks, but we should never waver on the copenhagen criteria. we should never waver on our commitment to turkey’s membership. there has to be a clear light at the end of the tunnel. that is why i call on turkey to continue its process of democratic reforms. i think we should pledge to support them on this path.
through enlargement, the eu has been able to strengthen the fundamental values of democracy and human rights on our continent and to create the conditions for a society based on the rule of law, independent courts and judicial authorities, a functioning market democracy, a stable and peaceful europe. this development must continue. turkey should therefore be welcomed as a member of the eu. too many in this parliament and among the eu governments are trying to evade the promises made to the applicant country turkey. this is dishonest and creates uncertainty not only in turkey but also in other candidate countries. but of course turkey cannot become a member of the eu until all the requirements are met. the eu should make tough demands, but at the same time support the country so that it can de facto meet the requirements. the developments in turkey have shown progress, as has been said, but unfortunately the picture is not clear. there are still major shortcomings. the decision of the constitutional court to ban the largest kurdish party is of course totally unacceptable and also blocks membership. let me also raise another issue in connection with turkish membership. i think that the danish colleague was in on it. last week, swedish radio reported on an audit that showed major flaws in how eu money is used in turkey. the money doesn't reach those who need it most. the commission is also criticising the poor follow-up and the lack of eu support for rural populations, such as minorities such as kurds and assyrians. women have also been disadvantaged. the rules for applying for project funding are complex and difficult to understand. my colleague göran färm and i have asked olli rehn, who is responsible for enlargement, to look into these matters in the last few days. we expect a quick response. finally, i would like to thank olli rehn for his excellent work as the person responsible for enlargement. good luck in your new role.
often the countries of north africa are drawn into a dispute, and in my view tunisia is severely disadvantaged. we've been talking about equality here. it is unique in tunisia compared to many other arab countries, as is the legislation for the protection of children and women. the university has, as already noted, more female than male students and the material standard has increased. the infrastructure is in good condition. after the elections, parliament has elected, or appointed, a committee on human rights. we should really take note of tunisia's willingness to cooperate with the eu. when tunisia now has a delegation visiting brussels and strasbourg, and is appealing for support in its efforts to promote human rights and develop and deepen relations with the eu, it would be contrary to the eu's principles in my view not to respond positively to these wishes and develop relations further.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are debating tonight a number of measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion of various kinds. these are important questions. it would be very good if we could strengthen our tools and cooperation in the fight against tax evasion within the eu in the way proposed. in the light of the financial and economic crisis, it is particularly urgent to make tax systems as efficient, reliable and fair as possible. i welcome the proposal to extend the use of the reverse charge procedure. this is a key step in the development of climate action. when the auctioning of allowances starts in 2013, we need to have a credible trading system in place, free from vat fraud and similar problems. the reverse charge mechanism is likely to be an excellent way of preventing such vat fraud. this will ensure both the credibility and the effectiveness of the system. the work on the report on the reverse charge has been very constructive. i am pleased to note that the commission, the council and the members of parliament concerned have been fully committed to finding a good solution quickly. a key element of the report is the creation of a comprehensive evaluation system, based on uniform criteria. it is very important that we closely monitor how well this reverse payment obligation works in practice in the field in question. the measures now proposed to combat tax evasion are important in this respect, but they should be seen as a small part of a larger and longer-term process. much remains to be done in this area. eu cooperation should be strengthened and the eu should lead the way in creating strong international agreements to combat tax fraud.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we know that taxes are a sensitive issue, and we hear it here. member states rightly consider taxation to be primarily a national issue, but in the wake of the financial crisis, there is a growing consensus that cooperation within the eu needs to be improved. tax competition is positive. however, this should be done in accordance with fair rules and no member state should benefit from the fact that the rules of one country can be used to evade tax. tax fraud is illegal, immoral and distorts the conditions of individual eu countries. you can be critical of your country's tax burden. and underneath that, so am i. but then we must work to change domestic policy and not shirk our responsibilities. the most efficient exchange of information is that which is automatic. the eu often criticises various forms of tax havens. it is therefore important that we demonstrate that we are also working internally to improve transparency, openness and cooperation in the tax area, mindful of the sanctity of privacy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i think it sets clear limits on the powers of the authorities and i take it that lászló kovács accepts this amendment. finally, i would like to thank mr kovács, commissioner for 18 hours more, or whatever. it has been a privilege to cooperate with you. you didn't achieve it all, but you did your best. thank you and good luck.
madam president, i would like to thank you. right now we are probably in one of the worst economic crises that any of us in this congregation have ever experienced. the automotive industry is one of the hardest hit industries. once again we are faced with a situation where a european car factory is threatened with closure. this includes not only car manufacturers but also subcontractors and those who work for them. it is not only a personal tragedy for the employees who will lose their jobs, but it is also a major problem for europe when such an important industry is weakened. globalization will bring changes, and it happens that companies move operations to other parts of the world. when companies move to other countries because they employ in those countries with poorer conditions, working environment and trade union rights, then there is a reason to review the design of trade agreements and other instruments. we must also discuss how we can work together to counter competition with less favourable conditions for workers, both within the union and vis-à-vis third countries. we must also take a concerted approach to preventing companies from playing off member state against member state. a european plan for the automotive industry must be forward-looking and based on knowledge and development, not on worse conditions.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i thank mr tarrabella and my colleagues on the committee on equality for a good report. i would like to stress two points in particular. i hope the plenary will support the importance of paternity leave. not only is fatherlessness an important signal that children are the responsibility of both parents, but it also has other positive consequences. there are studies that show that fathers who take time off work take on greater responsibility for the home, family and children in the future. so we're setting a good platform for continued gender equality work when fathers get involved. the other part that i want to highlight and support is that women should finally be given the power to decide about their own body, their own sexuality, their own reproduction. that power means that children are born welcome with the conditions to develop truly, which is the fundamental right of every child. we want to see an end to the harm done to women's lives, to the fact that women are even dying today because of illegal abortions. give women the right to decide not only over the economy, politics and society, but also over their own bodies!
mr president, the main challenge for this commission will not be to fight the crisis we have seen. we are gradually coming out of it and, although it will still be an important task to fulfil the policies that we have decided, the main challenge must be to prepare the ground for the future economy of europe, to ensure that it will be a dynamic economy able to compete and play a leading part in the world economy. that requires policies for new jobs, investments and dynamic economic growth. otherwise we will continue to face the problems caused by the crisis – the unemployment and the deficits. it is important that the commission that will be approved here in parliament today takes this challenge seriously. european voters gave a very clear message in june. they do not want the socialist regulation-based model but a model based on being open, laying the ground for a level playing field and a social europe, meaning jobs, growth, opportunities and cross-border integration. that is the task of this new commission – laying the ground for the economy, prosperity and social security by being open-minded and by saying ‘yes’ to innovations.
mr president, albert einstein said that life is like riding a bicycle: to keep your balance, you must keep moving. that is exactly what we expect from the new commission. at the same time, there are worries. the issue of climate change, for example, is split between a number of portfolios; that is most worrying. the issues of industrial policy and energy policy, meanwhile, will be dealt with by commissioners from just one political group; that is also most worrying. what we need now is balance and support for sustainable economic growth, and it is important that this is reflected in the eu 2020 strategy. the first words in a novel are always the most difficult to write. the impression the commission creates and the way it will operate will be reflected and written into the eu 2020 strategy, and this will be an indication of the work and quality of the new commission. i hope it will be sustainable.
in writing. - in the autumn we voted against barroso because he does not share our view on the importance of good working conditions, equality and the transition to a sustainable society. today's vote is for the 26-member college. before the vote on barroso's re-election as president of the commission, we made clear demands for a revision of the posting of workers directive. barroso was forced to concede and for the first time acknowledged that there were problems with the ecj's ruling in, amongst others, the laval case. he also promised to return soon with a regulation to resolve the problems. this was a very important change of position by the president of the commission, but it was not enough to support his candidacy. today we will be taking a stand on the composition of the commissioners, and we are hopeful that some commissioners who have been given key positions in dealing with the employment crisis, the regulation of the financial market and the defence of fundamental trade union rights will be able to make a difference. it is particularly positive that barnier and andor have clearly stated that there are problems with the interpretation of the posting of workers directive by the ec court of justice. they also made clear their willingness to start work on implementing the necessary changes to european legislation.
in writing. − i share the critics on the procedure of the nomination of the commission, as explained in the resolution of the green group, particularily the lack of transparency, member states choosing their candidates rather according to domestic political considerations than for their suitability, and the lack of possibility to disapprove to a separate candidate. however i could not vote against the whole commission since the commissionaire-designates for absolutely crucial and key issues such as climate, environment, development, humanitarian aid, agriculture and fisheries all were regarded as very competent and committed. therefore i abstained to the vote on the new commission.
madam president, i would like to thank you. what is happening in greece concerns not only those in the euro area, but the whole of the eu. it is therefore important that the eu address this difficult situation in a responsible manner. greece must do its part, live up to its promises and reform its policies. for me, who is working hard to ensure that sweden joins the euro as soon as possible, it is of the utmost importance that we in the eu sort out this difficult situation. it is said that the euro was extremely fortunate during the worst financial crisis. who can say that 16 currencies would have been better than one strong currency? no one! greece has slipped into the eurozone, which now shows the importance of tough but fair entry rules. order in the economy is a prerequisite for growth and prosperity, also for those outside the euro, and of course just as much for those in the euro area. those who speak of speculation should bear in mind that the basis for this is the economy of public finances.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen, look around this room. the empty spaces may represent all the predatory fish that have disappeared from the world's oceans in about 50 years. the world's fishing fleets have succeeded in depleting the planet of the predatory fish that are so vital to ecosystems. you're gonna hear tuna, cod and salmon. the eu is the second largest fishing nation in the world, and our responsibility for overfishing is indisputable. for example, between 2000 and 2008, the eu fisheries fund paid out over €23 million for the construction of new tuna vessels, an industry that also costs taxpayers millions each year for monitoring to control the blackfish and all this to export 70% of the fish to japan to be eaten at exclusive business dinners! i would remind you all that the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex 1 to cites does not mean that small-scale fishing is banned in europe, but only that exports, which are heavily subsidised by the taxpayer, are stopped. the un year of biodiversity should start this way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as vice-chairman of the croatian delegation to this parliament, i look forward to the day when we have croatian colleagues on the benches of this parliament. croatia has come a long way in its quest for membership and has taken many difficult decisions to cope with the european dimension. there are still important pieces of the puzzle to be completed before membership can be completed. one thing that i really care about is decentralisation, which means that political decisions are made as close to the people as possible. when you add a fourth level of decision-making, as in the case of eu membership, it is vitally important that people know what decisions are to be taken at local, regional, national and eu level. in this respect, the progress report points out that much remains to be done. another weakness remains the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the position of women in the labour market - areas where croatia needs to make more efforts. however, i see that very great progress is being made and that the new croatian government is also attaching great importance to these issues. i really hope that it will not be long before we have our croatian colleagues with us in this parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank mr swoboda for his report on croatia; it recognises the efforts and achievements made by the croatian government. i think it is important to say that this country is now coming closer to membership, which underlines – and i say this to the presidency of the council – that there is a need to finalise the negotiations with croatia during 2010. but i think it is also worth underlining the message that the efforts made by croatia have not been done for us. they are making croatia a better country and a better society for its citizens and by that croatia is becoming a better neighbour and contributing to europe, because fights against organised crime or corruption must be made across borders, and it is an advantage for us to see the achievements made in croatia. the same applies to other candidate countries. all the achievements we can see are of benefit to europe, and i must say, given the experience we have on the enlargement process, we have very few regrets on the achievements we have made; we should have the same perspective when we talk about turkey, macedonia or the other countries of the western balkans. when they reform they are becoming neighbours. when we close the door we are running the risk of new problems and new threats to european values; we should underline the need to go forward together in order to achieve a better european enlargement based on the criteria we fully support.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think it is extremely important that the progress made by the candidate countries involved in the negotiations should also be recognised and highlighted. i think it's very important psychologically. secondly, it is undeniable that the negotiations with the eu have created better conditions for the people of these countries. the negotiations themselves are a positive thing. we are all agreed that turkey needs to make a major effort and that freedom of religion, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are a matter of course. however, i also think it must be said that the negotiations with turkey are not merely negotiations with the turkish state or nation, but that turkey is something of a lock or a bridge to the whole region. it is therefore clear that the eu's relations with the region would deteriorate considerably if the door were to be closed again.
in writing. - we consider the original texts of paragraphs 13 and 15 on the distinction between victims of trafficking in human beings and irregular migrants and on residence permits for victims of trafficking in human beings to be preferable, but we vote in favour of the amendments to these texts in order to reach a compromise. the compromise includes granting temporary residence permits to victims of trafficking and raising awareness of trafficking among border guards. this is the first step on the road. we would prefer to see the resolution adopted now and intend to continue working towards granting permanent residence permits to victims of trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of resolution b7/-029/2010 on trafficking in human beings, as it deals with a very important subject and points to a wide range of tasks in the fight against trafficking in human beings. my support for the resolution should not be seen as supporting the proposals in the resolution which involve the transfer of more power from the member states to the eu, such as allowing the eu to decide on stricter sanctions in this area, the reference to the eu's stronger action in the criminal justice area in the lisbon treaty and the establishment of a higher level of legislation in this area.
in writing. - the moderates voted today 10/02/2010 against the report on equality between women and men 2009, a7-0004/2010. while we share the rapporteur's desire to improve equality between women and men in europe, we do not believe that interfering with the sovereignty of the member states by requiring so-called 'gender budgeting', sticking to the principle that member states should not implement cuts in social benefits and legislating quotas is the right way to go. gender equality is to be achieved at the individual level through increased opportunities to influence one's own situation and not through european legislation and poster policy such as specifically instituted days, additional eu authorities and an eu charter on women's rights. there is already an eu charter of human rights and freedoms, reinforced by the lisbon treaty, which also covers women. we are particularly concerned about the principle of subsidiarity. we therefore voted against the report in the final vote, although there are of course positions with which we sympathize, for example, we support the idea that women have full control over their sexuality and reproduction.
in writing. - at yesterday's vote on the report on equality between women and men, i voted against. this is mainly because, in my view, the report is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity on several points, including the question of quotas. i abstained on the votes on recital x and paragraph 38 of the report, which concerns women's access to abortion. the current wording would, in my view, infringe the principle of subsidiarity. i think it is a common position that we should not deal at eu level with matters which individual member states have the right to decide at national level. of course, i support the swedish position on the matter, namely that the decision on abortion is ultimately the woman's own, and not the legislators.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it was more important for us to show the broad consensus in support of the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia than to reiterate our position that we do not consider that disagreements between this country and its neighbours should affect its membership of the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i want to say that nothing is stopped, no acts of terror are stopped with this proposal. the council president said that none of the four attacks had been stopped, but that it was possible that the investigations had been facilitated afterwards. security is reduced by this agreement, just as all the total surveillance laws on the internet reduce security, because if you have total surveillance, people will run away from it even decent citizens. and then there's the creation of anonymity services online, and right now, in the banking industry. it's less safe if terrorists can hide among ordinary people. it's a bad deal. i'm calling for a total overhaul of all these anti-terror laws. what are their costs, and what is their overall effect on privacy and freedom? only then will i even consider voting yes to even more anti-terrorism legislation. we have to make sure that the commission is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly spent.
acting president of the council. - i agree with the context of the last few speeches. i believe that the defence of human rights is one of the essential objectives which every democratic state and every democratic organisation such as the european union must pursue. the european parliament has a culture of defending human rights which makes us proud, also in this sense, of the construction of europe, since the construction of europe is based on human rights. the identity of europe and what unites europeans who speak different languages and have different traditions is precisely the sharing of these values of defending human rights. in this respect, i believe that the press has an absolutely essential role to play. the press is a key element, the nucleus of democracy, and it is undoubtedly a necessary instrument, indispensable for the defence of human rights and the denunciation of cases in which these human rights violations occur. when such violations occur but are not known, beyond the purely personal sphere, it simply becomes impossible to prosecute. the press therefore plays a fundamental, essential role, and i believe that, in addition, the most genuine, most authentic journalistic culture must be deeply sensitive to the defence of human rights, of all freedoms. that's what really makes life worth living and that's what ultimately gives meaning to human beings living together. the persecution of those who violate human rights, the defence of victims is undoubtedly one of the pillars of the construction of europe, of the european union, and i am very proud to belong to a territory where this is particularly valued and where the legal instruments of judicial and supranational independence have been built, as is the case of the european court of human rights, which has its seat in this city, in strasbourg. i am very proud that europe has precisely these objectives and realities in its tradition, culture and history.
member of the commission. − madam president, quite a lot of broad questions have been asked which would, in fact, deserve much more time than i have. i suggest focusing in my initial reply on the contribution of trade policy to economic recovery. first, as regards the impact of the crisis on trade, we should be relieved that world trade only decreased by 10%. this did not happen by chance, but is a result of strong political will expressed at various g20 summits. it is also the result of systematic monitoring of trade restrictive measures by the wto, the oecd and the commission. by and large, only a few countries resorted to trade protectionism. the international community thus avoided a protectionist downward spiral of the kind witnessed at the time of the great depression. in order to maintain this, it is important to remain extremely vigilant. where protectionist or trade-restrictive measures are identified, we will take action against them with all available trade tools, such as our market-access strategy or even the wto dispute-settlement mechanism. external sources of growth will be crucial to eu economic recovery. i therefore concur with you that european industry should target the new and fast-growing emerging markets. through our trade policy we can help them to achieve this by further opening up these markets and reducing all sorts of barriers to trade and investment. this will be achieved through the free trade agreements that we are currently negotiating and by deepening trade and economic partnerships with key trading partners such as, for example, the us and china, where the tec and the high-level dialogue have already laid solid foundations. this will be a priority for me as trade commissioner. over the coming weeks, the commission will put together the eu’s new common agenda for sustainable growth and recovery via the eu 2020 strategy. this strategy will have an effective external dimension in which trade policy plays a key role. in a globalised world the eu 2020 strategy should be a vector to promote openness and constructive international economic engagement. this will also be a central theme of a communication on future trade-policy priorities that i intend to present later this year. but trade policy is about more than just competiveness and growth. it is also about projecting our values worldwide and it must also duly integrate the development dimension of trade. promoting a strong contribution to development goals is already an important part of the eu’s trade policy. the current multilateral negotiations are a development round. we have bilateral and regional negotiations with developing countries and autonomous preferences in favour of these countries. we help them to contribute to, and also tap into, the global economy so as to raise living standards in a way that delivers both greater political stability and social progress. as regards social issues, i agree that trade must contribute to helping those people in our societies who suffered most from the economic crisis, especially those who lost their jobs. in this respect, i believe that we will need trade – and more trade – to preserve our social system of protection in europe. our european model of society, the combination of a free economy with a high degree of social protection, must be preserved in a sustainable way, and this will take growth. in sum, the commission’s forthcoming eu 2020 strategy will support a full recovery from the crisis while speeding up the move towards a smarter and greener economy. open trade policy will be an important element, both as a contribution to european economic recovery and as a vector for the external projection of our principles: openness, social and environmental protection and sustainability, and constructive engagement on the world scene. putting the right strategy in place will naturally involve working closely with parliament as well as the council and other stakeholders, and i look forward to your cooperation in building a shared agenda.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. i too would like to begin by welcoming the commissioner. it's a pleasure to see you here. we have high hopes and expectations for you. you have an important job to do. a year ago, i was very worried. at that time, when trade was collapsing and we could expect a development in world trade not seen since the second world war, it was a sharp situation. the world bank found that 17 of the 20 g20 countries collectively imposed 47 new trade barriers and tariffs. russia focused on tariffs on cars, china on restrictions on food imports, india on bans on toys and argentina on import licences for textiles and leather goods. and then we saw what looked like a protectionist arms race, a pattern from the 1930s that was worrying. however, there was no trade war. i think it's important to stop and think about why. i think the most important answer to that is the wto, the global trade framework, which forces countries to behave and not to fall prey to protectionism and populism. i would argue that it is too early to dismiss the danger. the crisis is not over. we all know that it is late in the business cycle when unemployment is at its highest - unemployment that drives protectionism and populism. right now, we see around us that more countries are not even through the crisis, but perhaps even have the worst ahead of them. i am therefore somewhat alarmed when i hear parts of the council of ministers not talking much about new markets and free trade, but rather about criticism of globalisation and about protecting european businesses and european jobs. it is not necessarily protectionism, but the line is sometimes very fine. it is, in any case, an expression of a mercantilism which i believe is harmful. we should instead join forces and think about how to make europe more competitive by making it more open. it's consistent with our thoughtfulness and leadership. we must, especially now that we are about to decide on korea and compulsory origin labelling and as the demands for climate tariffs are increasing, consider how we can ensure that there are fewer and not more trade barriers. we in the european parliament also need to think about this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. our continent is a rich continent. the eu has a particularly heavy responsibility to maintain free and fair trade. the financial crisis is creating a global economic recession that has reduced trade by 10 percent in 2009, as mentioned here, and it's now at the same level as in 2005. developing countries are particularly vulnerable when their exports fall and they have problems with bank financing. for example, the acp countries account for 50% of their trade in goods. these countries are extremely vulnerable to crises. a one percent drop in growth will result in 20 million people falling into poverty. here the eu must take its responsibility as a rich part of the world and ensure that the financial crisis does not force more people into poverty and exclusion. the eu must work to increase effective assistance to the poorest countries and provide debt relief where appropriate. in this context, my friends, i think that a number of the countries you come from could do more to ensure that your aid in the countries of origin is greater, more effective and better. it is not always the eu that should be called upon, but some things can be done at home. the main priority for the union is the completion of the doha round and the scrapping of the eu's agricultural policy. it is not right for the rich eu to compete with poor farmers in africa. a new free trade agreement would be the best way to bring the world out of the financial crisis and prevent protectionism. the eu can and must act as a beacon for the liberalisation of world trade. globalisation and international trade are fundamentally positive. protectionism is evil and always has been evil. those of you who think that protectionism would teach and help the world in some way, you should learn from history.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. however, we proposed to parliament to postpone the decision in order to further strengthen the protection of privacy. unfortunately, parliament did not give its consent. the provisional agreement strikes a balance between two objectives: the effective fight against terrorism and the protection of the personal privacy of citizens. the fight against terrorism requires effective tools, but above all we must ensure that democratic rights are protected. we believe that this is done now, but we would have liked to have had even stronger protection. the transfer of swift's operations from the united states has significantly enhanced privacy when european standards of privacy are applied. further negotiations between the eu and the us on a long-term agreement combining a strong guarantee of citizens' data protection with effective means of monitoring financial preparations for terrorist acts are to be completed in october. although there is more to be done to strengthen the protection of individuals, we consider the improvements in the pre-year-end no-deal situation to be so reassuring that we could vote in favour of the provisional agreement in order to avoid a significant weakening of the fight against terrorism in the next nine months. before a final agreement is reached, we will make the requirement of further enhanced protection of individuals a condition for approval.
mr president, i would like to thank you. according to the commission's own figures, 80 million eu citizens live below the poverty line today. it is not decent and it is also an obstacle to any other development. at the same time, a man like nigel farage is in this parliament, spewing out words of contempt, at a time when europe is in crisis, when we have many important issues to discuss. he should be given a time-out and not be allowed to attend the partsession next week in strasbourg. it would be a mild punishment for the behavior he's exhibited. what we now have to do is to develop a new lisbon strategy, namely the eu 2020. it is important, then, that we understand that social cohesion and sustainable development are a prerequisite for economic growth. for example, the first to get out of the fossil-dependent society will also be the one to take the lead in creating the new green jobs. however, to succeed in this, resources are needed. at least 50% of the funds earmarked by the eu and the member states to overcome the crisis must be invested in a new green deal that can create the new green jobs. the seventh and eighth framework programmes must concentrate on research and development in renewable energy. the commission must also take strong action to prevent the social exclusion that is now taking place across europe and to strengthen the social partners. in recent years, the eu has rightly come to be seen as a threat to the trade union movement. this has to change. a first step would be a revision of the much-debated posting of workers directive, or as it has come to be known in europe, the 'wage dumping directive', which is creating so much anger and so much conflict. we have had enough of that in parliament today.
mr president, the aim of eu 2020 should be to free the potential of the european citizen. all too often we forget that our strategies for growth are put in place for the benefit of our citizens and the future of our children. there is no doubt that the lisbon strategy failed when it attempted to include everything. with such a broad agenda the focus was lost and so were the possibilities to achieve the ambitious goals that were set. for the 2020 strategy to be more effective, the format needs to be changed into something completely different. the work should be targeted at the few specific areas where the fundamentals of sustainable growth should be addressed. as the only directly elected body of the eu, and with full codecision powers in place, this parliament will have its say in the 2020 strategy. in order to ensure legitimacy and openness, the commission and the council will therefore be wise to include parliament in the ongoing work of the 2020 strategy. just as openness and transparency are essential for the creation of a citizen’s europe, they are also key instruments in avoiding crises in public finances such as those currently hitting countries across the union. everyone is pointing their fingers at greece but there are also other member states that have avoided benchmarking, deceived europe about their deficits and cheated with their financial statistics. the method of open coordination has turned into a closed collusion and open humiliation. remember, what is true for citizens is also true for governments. freedoms also bring responsibilities. it is now time for governments across europe to take that responsibility seriously because the problems we face are serious.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as regards the joint resolution of our group on the un human rights council, i particularly welcome paragraphs 6 and 25, where we reiterate the eu's strong support for so-called country-specific resolutions. in cases where gross human rights violations are systematic, country-specific resolutions in both the human rights council and the un general assembly are a very important tool. in many cases where a nation's government has long failed to engage in talks or programmes to improve the drug situation, country-specific resolutions are the only remaining option for the international community to act against these crimes. it is not, as some critics say, a matter of naming and shaming, nor is it that we in europe like to stick our nose in other states' internal affairs. it is simply a matter of making it clear that we cannot accept the systematic violations and oppression of its own people by a regime. it's about showing that we're on the side of freedom and not oppression. it is therefore important that we in the eu continue to defend the existence of country-specific resolutions within the un system.
acting president of the council. - thank you, mr president, for giving me the opportunity to speak on this point on the situation of civil society and national minorities in belarus. the european union is undoubtedly very concerned about the deterioration of the situation in belarus, and especially with regard to human rights. the situation of lack of freedom of expression and assembly, a constant increase in pressure on the media, laws restricting the use of the internet and actions against opposition activists are manifesting a deterioration, a degradation of the human rights situation in belarus. in her statement of 16 february last, mrs ashton, the union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, also expressed her concern about the situation of the polish minority in belarus and the arrest by the police of some of its members. furthermore, this statement, this formal position of the high representative, was conveyed to the authorities in belarus through official diplomatic channels. we were able to discuss this matter at the foreign affairs council on monday and to go into a debate which will certainly be repeated later. there was an intervention, by the way, by the polish minister in which he expressed his concern, his feeling that there was a need to react and take a stand against systematic harassment of members of the polish minority. and it must be said that the european union, in its various fields, is certainly concerned and is following this situation very closely and very directly. i think it is very important that the belarusian authorities are told that they have to fulfil the commitments they have made within the osce to respect human rights, to protect minorities as an essential part of respecting human rights. in the foreign affairs council itself, to which i have just referred, there was an express request to the ministers of the european union that they might, by the appropriate channels and in the appropriate forums, draw the attention of the belarusian authorities to this situation. i believe it is in the common interest of belarus, of the european union and of all europeans to influence the cessation of these actions which are contrary to human rights and the rights of very important minorities in belarus. at the same time, i believe it is important for belarus to work in the right direction, and the eastern partnership in all its dimensions and therefore also in the multilateral field is a place to influence this in the right direction.
member of the commission. − mr president, further to the eu presidency statement, which actually referred to the position expressed by the high representative, baroness ashton, on the matter very clearly and very forcefully, let me just add the concern about the deteriorating human rights situation in belarus, in particular with regard to the polish minority. the very regrettable backtracking of the advancement of democracy in belarus in the last years is a very serious matter but, that being said, we must also remain engaged with belarus and we must keep channels of communication open, however difficult this may be, not necessarily only through government channels – we can of course build on the eastern partnership and use it – but also through people-to-people contacts. those contacts may be the most important ones to pursue in belarus, through student exchange, through business opportunities and through providing cultural exchanges as a platform of engagement with the people of belarus and as a way of retaining an opportunity for advancing democracy in belarus. in closing, let me say that, despite this reversal in the last two years, the commission would like to remain engaged and pursue, through its interaction with belarus, acceleration of a positive development bringing the process of engagement back on track, as it was two years ago.
mr president, my thanks to the spanish presidency and to the commission for their words on this situation. i think we need to be clear about one thing: what we are talking about now is not a single incident – it is the actions of a dictatorship and a brutal regime that is denying minority rights as well as the rights of its individual citizens. that is how things are in belarus, and i think that must be the point of departure for our discussions on the dialogue with the regime. a dialogue must be mutual. when we show openness, we need to require the regime in belarus to deliver, and they have not delivered the changes and the reforms that they should deliver. i would like to say and underline very much that this is not a polish issue. belarus is in the neighbourhood of the european union. it is included in the eastern partnership. this is a european issue and, by its actions now, the regime in belarus is distancing itself from open dialogue and cooperation with the european union. we shall require, first of all, in a fundamental way, respect for minorities, respect for human rights, a stop to police brutality and a willingness to have a constructive dialogue with the european union. i think this message must be made clear to the regime. our dialogue must be a dialogue for democracy and human rights, and of course we should turn to civil society because belarus is much more than the regime. it is the people living in belarus – the students, men and women, society. i think what we have seen lately has proved that we must now proceed with a dialogue directed at civil society in order to strengthen freedom and democracy and respect for human rights.
the questioner. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation of women in the eu. in the committee on equality we have adopted a resolution which is parliament's position on the beijing platform. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for the good cooperation. that the platform adopted in 1995 within the framework of the united nations was a historic step. the adopted platform for action, the so-called platform for action, was the first global document of its kind. it took a holistic approach to women's conditions and rights. the un has a long and proud tradition in the field of human rights, adopting a declaration as early as 1948. the universal declaration consists of 30 articles, and they are often quoted. the second article already states that everyone shall enjoy the rights and freedoms without distinction of any kind, and mentions sex explicitly. within the eu, the issue of equality between women and men has a clear basis in both the treaties and the charter of human rights. in the committee we agree on the importance of the beijing platform and the need to work more concretely within the eu to monitor developments systematically and to ensure that we move towards greater equality in all areas. the new european institute for gender equality, based in vilnius, will be a way for us to get help in the work and can also show research on which policies are most effective. there are many things about which we do not have the facts and knowledge. i support the proposal for a european protection order, which i am very pleased that the spanish presidency has put forward. the beijing platform contains a number of areas which are of the utmost importance for our success. these are areas such as poverty, which mainly affects women, inadequate access to health care for women, violence against women in all its forms, inequality in economic structures and economic policies. as you know, a delegation of eight members of parliament will be travelling to new york to represent the european parliament. we will follow the discussions and negotiations as part of the evaluation of the world's progress in 15 years towards the adoption of the platform. the resolution we adopt tomorrow will be taken with us to new york, and it is important that we have it with us. in the committee we adopted a point stating that sexual and reproductive health and rights are part of women's rights and that they need to be improved in europe and globally. the ppe group has asked for a vote in favour of this item. we all know that the reason why we want to vote on an item in particular is that it is particularly important and that is why we do not vote on it in conjunction with other parts of the resolution. i fully agree with the ppe that point 9 is central. but i fear that they will vote against this point, and i think that would be extremely regrettable. i am fully aware that we in this parliament have different views and values, and we should. that's why we have debates and discussions. but this text is a minimum and should be supported by all. no other text is proposed to replace paragraph 9. it would be a great pity if we went to new york with a resolution which does not say a word about this fundamental question, which is also a very important question at the global level. i believe and hope that everyone can accept the text as it is, because it says only what we all take for granted. in the process, we have also worked closely with thousands of different women and women's organisations and this document has a unique anchorage.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i am very pleased to see this commitment from the commission to promote best practice and increase the efficiency of the european energy market. energy efficiency is crucial for both jobs and growth in europe and a prerequisite for us to meet the 2°c target. the two most important conditions in this context are smart energy grids and a free and functioning internal energy market. both of these require, of course, that the commission has a good knowledge of the infrastructure and the market, and that is the content of this proposal. but efficiency is also required in the bureaucracy that will handle the information. the information provided must be necessary to achieve the objectives pursued. the protection of all data collected from european companies is also essential to achieve the objective of a functioning market in order to prevent market distortions. i will support the rapporteur's report and i call for the rejection of the extremely bureaucratic proposals put forward by the green group. as i said, the proposal is aimed at very important objectives, so important that they have been given their own legal basis under article 194 of the treaty of lisbon, which lists them almost verbatim. it should therefore be self-evident that the european parliament is fully involved through the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with this treaty. anything else would be unworthy and a very unfortunate start to the cooperation we need between parliament and the commission in the context of a functioning internal energy market.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. this amending budget is primarily of a practical nature in order to adapt parliament to the new tasks resulting from the treaty of lisbon. but one point is of fundamental importance, namely the decision, now over 20 years old, that parliament should take no more than 20% of the eu's administrative budget. with this decision we cross this threshold marginally, but more as a result of technological change than as a new policy. this has, however, started a debate on the 20% rule. when today's decision is implemented for the full year of 2011, we will have crossed the threshold unless we make some very drastic cuts. there is reason to discuss changing this 20% rule because the role of parliament has changed more than that of other institutions, but the principle should not be abandoned without consideration. i am thinking in particular of two aspects. firstly, we must take account of the fact that many member states are currently suffering from extreme demands for staff and wage cuts. then we cannot just continue to expand the eu administration anyway. secondly, we must take account of the fact that we have the eu budget for administration together with the other institutions and that in the 1988 decision we promised that if we were to abandon the 20% rule, it would be after dialogue with the council. this is particularly important in view of the difficult negotiations we are facing with the council on the external service, the financial regulation, the long-term budget, etc. i am voting for the report, but i would also like to raise a warning finger for the future.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and commissioner damanaki! i first became aware of the eu's common fisheries policy and its destructive consequences in 2002, when sweden, by a majority in the riksdag, decided to unilaterally stop cod fishing in sweden for a year, but was prevented from doing so by the european commission. although sweden intended to compensate swedish professional fishermen for the cessation, although the scientists of the international council for the exploration of the sea had for a number of years recommended a total cessation of cod fishing and although the various cod stocks along the swedish coast had been eradicated or reduced by between 70 and 90 per cent, the principle of the common fisheries policy was more important. if everyone else is overfishing, sweden must be too, the commission felt. in other words, it was a duty of exploitation for the eu countries. in 2002, the latest reform of fisheries policy was completed and it has proved to be unable to do anything about the serious problems facing fisheries already ten years ago, namely that too many too efficient vessels are competing to fish for too few and ever fewer fish. the last bluefin tuna fishing vessels were subsidised by eu money as recently as 2005 in the mediterranean. between 2000 and 2008, eu taxpayers paid €34 million to build and modernise tuna vessels, at a time when the stock was collapsing. in the baltic we have a similar logic. the most recent one, the swedish fisheries agency, paid out €5.4 million to scrap some of the largest cod fishing vessels - the same vessels that have been built with eu money. we believe that all forms of harmful subsidies must be abolished. eu vessels, fuelled with tax-free fuel and with taxpayer access contracts, are now depleting african seas of vital food and unfairly competing with african fishermen, while destroying ecosystems. i would ask all colleagues, in view of today's vote on the green paper report, to remove at least one bad point from an otherwise largely very good report. it is about paragraph 121, which states that the eu's external fisheries policy is to protect european fisheries interests. i do not think it is appropriate for the eu to pursue such a policy in 2010.
in writing. - the report by mrs lenz (a7-0214/2010), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (c8-0214/2010), on the common position established by the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council regulation on the protection of the environment (com (2010) 0406 - c8-0214/2010), we would like to stress, however, that we believe that the eu member states should be called upon to condemn human rights violations in general and we regret that the un human rights council has not been able to deal with serious human rights situations in other countries than those mentioned in the resolution, such as cuba, with several countries.
in writing. - the report by mrs lenz (a7-0214/2010), on behalf of the committee on women's rights, on the commission communication on the european union strategy for women's empowerment and the fight against discrimination in employment, however, we would like to stress that we do not consider that a gender equality chapter should be included in the revision of the lisbon strategy 2010, it is already covered by the ec treaty and the eu charter of human rights and freedoms. we also want to emphasize that we believe women should have power over their sexuality and reproduction. we believe in the individual's ability to decide his own life; the eu should not be imposing any kind of pointers in this area. increasing gender equality is one of the eu's major challenges, where sweden can inspire other eu countries with our progress.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. this justifies a reinforcement of the staff of the secretariat of parliament and the political groups in these committees. however, we do not share the view that there is a need for staffing for us members. we would also have preferred to see parliament's resources increased through efficiency and redistribution, so that the overall budget is not increased.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the majority of meps rejected the priority to be given to ecological sustainability and voted in favour of an amendment to the proposal that policy towards non-eu countries should be guided by the community's fisheries interests. this was not acceptable to us, and that is why we voted against. we are also sceptical about the european parliament's wish to give the common fisheries policy more money - we do not want to be part of this unless the aim is a clear change in policy.
in writing. − this report is a broad document that covers all the aspects of the cfp, from aquaculture to angling, from the baltic sea to fisheries agreements with third world countries. the greens are happy about many of the amendments to the report that we managed to get accepted, such as fundamental principles on demands for sustainability on those that will have the right to fish, demands of environmental impact assessments on fisheries operations, the statement that the eu should not compete with local fishermen under the fisheries agreements, but only be allowed to fish from a surplus of fish, and also the motion to all eu institutions to put illegal fishing on top of the international agenda in all relevant fora, to protect the oceans as well as food security. unfortunately there were also some completely unacceptable and contradictory paragraphs approved in the final text, such as the objective of the external parts of the cfp is to protect and promote european fisheries interests, that ecological sustainability should not be prioritised over social and economical sustainability and that all policy areas should contribute to fulfilling the cfps objectives. this is why the green group could not support the report, but abstained.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as we celebrate international women's day today, it is 15 years since the un platform for women's rights was adopted. halfway through the follow-up in new york, i and the other participants in the european parliament delegation can say that women all over the world have to be content with the status quo. despite the recent and good resolutions of parliament, the tarabella report and the beijing +15 resolution, the un meeting has unfortunately not produced any results so far. the eu's negotiating governments do not seem to have the same ambition for women's rights as the european parliament has shown in the resolutions mentioned above. sometimes i feel that eu governments are basically using the beijing platform to teach non-eu countries about gender equality. sometimes it's easier to teach others than to get results yourself. commission president barroso promised before the presidential elections to draw up a charter for women's rights. we have seen the commission's document today. i and my group, gue/ngl, are deeply concerned both about the weak content and the way the charter has been drafted. there's a good chance it'll be nothing more than a paper product. parliament, national bodies and european voluntary organisations have not been involved or participated in the work, and of course the citizens of europe have not been involved either. i would like to say to president barroso: a declaration of common values is not enough. what europe's women and men need is a strong document, developed and produced in cooperation with all relevant stakeholders. let this be a first draft of a charter of women's rights. then use the time until the next international women's day for a debate and discussion with parliament, national authorities and ngos in europe. then, when we celebrate the next international women's day, we will see that we have made progress. we work for women's rights, not just on march 8th, but every day of the year. that is what the women and men of europe need.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on saturday, the icelandic people said a resounding no to the icesave agreement. only a few weeks ago, the commission recommended that the eu open accession negotiations with iceland. the finance ministers in london and the hague are rightly on their side, although they have a considerable responsibility. the consumers who were unwise enough to invest in icesave also have a right to have their losses mitigated. but the demands must be reasonable and proportionate. now we need to renegotiate with the governments in london and the hague. the icelandic people should feel welcome in the eu. of course, icelanders will never vote yes to eu membership if the finance ministers in london and the hague are allowed to determine iceland's fate. the british and dutch cabal cannot govern the european union. the eu must now act decisively and show solidarity with the icelandic people. let me quote from hávamál: (speaker speaking icelandic) that is icelandic: we have to solve the problems together.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its work on this dossier. i would especially like to thank the rapporteur, ms de brún, for her efforts to reach an agreement on this issue, which is a sensitive one for some member states. we also appreciate that, apart from the issues involved, she had to steer the process through the difficult part on delegated acts. thank you very much. i am pleased that the intense discussions held between the three institutions have resulted in a compromise text that fully reflects the technical measures proposed by the commission and also addresses the necessary adaptation of the proposals to the lisbon treaty in a way that is acceptable to the commission. indeed, our joint work has been complicated and slowed down by this alignment. nevertheless, the council is now in a position to ensure that this work is finalised on time. before a vote is taken on the compromise text, i am pleased to confirm that the commission does not intend to propose a further prolongation of the transitional regime, which will come to an end on 31 december 2011. this means that fully harmonised rules will be in place from 1 january 2012. however, the commission does intend to propose a revision of the regulation in its entirety before 30 june 2011 and, in particular, the aspects of delegated and implementing acts. as regards the notification of delegated acts, the commission will also take account of the periods of recess of the institutions in order to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to exercise their prerogatives within the time limits laid down in the relevant legislative acts. finally, i can confirm the commission’s commitment, jointly expressed with parliament and the council, that the provisions of this regulation shall be without prejudice to any further position of the institutions as regards the implementation of article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union or individual legislative acts containing such provisions. i hope parliament will support the compromise text, which i firmly believe properly addresses all concerns raised by this house.
for the ppe group. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is a very important report, partly because it is about how we can make it easier for pet owners in europe to move across borders, and partly because it is about how we can prevent diseases that are found in our pets from spreading dangerously around europe. as a swedish member of the european parliament, i am particularly interested in this question, because there are two diseases which fortunately we do not have in sweden yet, namely the so-called dwarf tapeworm and, above all, rabies. during the consideration of this proposal, i have on a number of occasions expressed concern that we will have to bend the rules we have in sweden in a way that would allow the introduction of tapeworms and rabies into sweden. it would have incredible consequences, not least for the way we use the so-called right of all persons in sweden, that is, how we are able to move freely in forests and on land. i am very pleased to note today that sweden, at least for a transitional period, will be able to maintain the exceptions that we have and that can ensure that we do not get these diseases. it wasn't a given in the whole process. until the very end there was a debate on the committee procedure which, at least i was concerned, would create an uncertainty and a loophole in the application of the procedure which would create a risk that these diseases could come to sweden. i really want to thank all those who have worked hard to find solutions to ensure that pets can move around europe and to ensure that the exemptions that countries which are currently free of diseases can keep in place so that we do not have to worry about new diseases anywhere in europe because of this proposal. i thank the rapporteur, the council and the commissioner.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission has put forward a good proposal to amend the regulation on animal health conditions for the transport of pet animals. i am particularly pleased that this will allow us to extend the period during which a number of countries, including sweden, may maintain their stricter rules on rabies and tapeworms. the swedish agricultural agency, the responsible authority in sweden, has stated that without this possibility of specific control, tapeworms, for example, would probably become established in sweden, and this in turn could have a negative impact on the free-range life in forests and fields, which is a significant part of people's everyday life and reality in a country like sweden. so thank you for making this temporary solution possible, thanks to the responsive efforts of the commission, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs.
mr president, one can question if, from an administrative point of view, it is possible to launch a financial transaction tax, or if it is politically possible, but i think the fundamental question must be, is it good? is it useful for economic development to have a tax on financial transactions? because this means that you will have a tax on investments; cross-border, you will have a tax on investments in countries where you have less capital than in others. will this help international trade or will it reduce international trade, if it has an impact? i say this because there are two examples we could look at when we discuss this item. firstly, we have 30 years of enormous economic growth thanks to well-functioning global financial markets. then we have seen the consequences of the crisis giving us the credit crunch. i think that we should have more affluent and functioning global financial markets rather than trying to get anywhere close to what is a credit crunch. because a transaction tax, just like every tax, aims to reduce the volume of what is taxed, and i do not see a benefit in reducing the amount of international trade because we have seen the consequences when that has happened. i cannot see that making investments in poor countries more expensive is useful. taxing financial transactions will not hinder financial transactions. it will not even hinder what are sometimes called speculative investments. it will hinder the big flow of normal investments and trade that we are in need of. and i think, commissioner, there is every reason to be careful and hesitant when we discuss this item.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur and the other staff for the good cooperation we have had during the time we have been working on the consumer scoreboard. i am also pleased that we have once again produced a report which has the support of an overwhelming majority in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i have always argued that we need safe and satisfied consumers in the eu for the internal market to work fully. it was therefore gratifying to have a commissioner in charge of consumer affairs in 2007. meglena kuneva demonstrated strong personal commitment and a high degree of openness which contributed to the progress of consumer protection policy and consumer issues. the consumer scoreboard is also one of meglena kuneva's works. despite the concerns about the division of responsibility for consumer affairs between two commissioners, we hope that the work will continue to develop and bear fruit and that the focus on consumers will not be weakened by the new commission. this is a responsibility that is actually greater now, as article 12 of the lisbon treaty states that consumer protection requirements must be taken into account when other union policies and activities are designed and implemented. this is an important step for consumers and something i do not intend to let anyone forget in my further work as a politician. i really welcome the second edition of the consumer scoreboard. the scoreboard is one of several tools for improving the internal market and i think that the perspective from which the scoreboard is based is particularly interesting, because it is about the expectations and problems of citizens and because it makes the internal market better for consumers in particular. over time, these will certainly need to be developed and improved and new indicators will also need to be introduced. however, at present i believe that they provide a sufficient basis from which to set priorities and draw conclusions as to what further analysis needs to be done. it's incredibly important that we be patient and give the scoreboard time to evolve. it's still a newborn baby. in the second consumer scoreboard, we have seen, among other things, clear indications that consumers have more problems with services than with goods and that prices increase less frequently in sectors where consumers frequently switch suppliers. cross-border e-commerce is also developing more slowly due to border barriers that leave consumers anxious and insecure. in addition, we can see that effective enforcement of the law and effective remedies are crucial to the proper functioning of the market. data also show that there are large differences between member states and that there is scope for improving the scrutiny mechanisms. i therefore now call on the commission to follow up the green paper on collective redress. effective enforcement and supervision of eu consumer protection rules is a prerequisite for increasing consumer confidence. however, eu surveillance is far from uniform and statistics show significant differences between member states in terms of market surveillance budgets and the number of inspectors involved. the commission and the national regulatory authorities must therefore step up their efforts to achieve the objective of ensuring good consumer protection and ensuring that consumers feel safe in order to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the internal market. it is essential to strengthen market surveillance and regulatory mechanisms in order to increase consumer confidence. consumption will be a decisive factor in the economic recovery in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! thank you to the rapporteurs responsible for a good job. the eu's single market is a great success despite its shortcomings, and trevor colman's criticism is hard to understand. the internal market must provide consumers with a wide choice of quality goods and services at good prices, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. i therefore believe that we should strive for full harmonisation of consumer rights at a high level of protection so that consumers can really benefit from the benefits of the internal market. this is particularly important as cross-border trade and e-commerce increase. i am convinced that class action lawsuits would be an effective way of empowering european consumers, not on the american model but on the european model. we must stop delaying and finally get to the point. i am glad that commissioner john dalli is taking up this matter. we know that the service sector is the one that creates the most jobs today. it is therefore important that the eu has a truly european services sector where traders and consumers can act freely in the internal market, not just nationally. we need a functioning trade in health care services. it's better care, more choice, shorter lines. today we are faced with a situation which is almost without law, and here i am relying on commissioner john dalli. another area that needs more attention is financial services, where we know that there are still problems. clear and credible rules are therefore needed, not least in view of the financial turmoil, and this is what commissioner michel barnier will be addressing. balanced, reasonable and correct rules are good for consumers.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? it has been interesting to listen to all the wise and interesting comments. i am also very pleased that the two responsible commissioners are pledging to work together to improve and develop eu consumer policy. i'd like to add a few things. consumer organisations have a very important role to play in drawing the attention of the authorities to the everyday problems of consumers. therefore, the instruments available to consumer organisations should be improved to make it easier for them to act effectively at union and national level. in addition, we must encourage member states to consult consumer organisations as much as possible at all stages of consumer policy decision-making. i am also pleased that commissioner john dalli raised the issue of the importance of member states ensuring that there is sufficient funding and staff available for the further development of the scoreboard. finally, the scoreboard should not only be used to deliver better consumer policy, but should impact all policy areas of importance to consumers and ensure that consumer issues are more fully integrated into all eu policies. in addition, the scoreboard should stimulate a more general discussion on consumer policy issues, both at eu and national level. i would very much look forward to having a debate in this house again in a year's time on the internal market and consumer protection.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has tabled an opinion on the proposal. - mr president! - what is it? eu cooperation is based on values, and the most fundamental value is freedom. what we're discussing today is the ability of people to move freely. in my eu there are no limits to this. this is where i see the greatness of the european union. the free movement of persons is for all of us who live here, but it should also apply to all those who come here to stay for a longer period. under the schengen convention, a long-stay visa holder does not enjoy freedom of movement today, but, as carlos coelho has pointed out, he or she can only stay in the member state which issued the visa. for example, it has come to mean that a visiting professor from india living and working in my home town of uppsala in sweden cannot go to a conference in paris without applying for a visa to france, or that a student from china cannot go to germany to visit a friend for the weekend without applying for a visa there. such obstacles to free movement must not exist within the eu. let's change that. the proposal we are now voting on is intended to ensure the free movement throughout the schengen area of third-country nationals residing in a member state for a long period of time. i would like to thank carlos coelho, who has done a very fine job as rapporteur, and who has taken account of the views i have expressed in my juri opinion and also the views of other shadow rapporteurs. the result is now before us: it is a positive proposal which constitutes another link in ensuring free movement within the eu, including for third country nationals. it is developing, and it is the eu that i am proud to live in and work for.
in writing. − the free market in the eu makes the union a strong player, but it also means that consumers must be well informed and clearly informed about what is available on the market. the consumer must be empowered. that is why i voted today in favour of the report on consumer protection. however, the report contains a number of problematic phrases. there is a risk that consulting consumer organisations at all stages of decision-making will be a cumbersome process. civil society is important in the work of relevant consumer protection, but the form of this can vary from country to country without the result being worse. the principle of subsidiarity must be applied to the establishment of consumer protection authorities and ombudsmen, as well as to the formulation of the school curriculum. the eu sets minimum levels and targets for the common consumer policy, but does not control in every detail how the member states achieve these targets. the report calls on all member states to collect and record data on accidents and injuries in a common database. such a database should not involve excessive administrative work. the administration must be in reasonable proportion to the benefit to the individual. however, consumer rights and consumer protection in the internal market are so important that, despite the above concerns, i voted in favour of the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i hope i am not deviating from the questions that are now to be asked. i am fully convinced that mr barroso and i agree that respect for human rights and freedoms is the most important thing in the eu and in relations between the eu and other countries. the eu now has an aid relationship with eritrea, and for the period 2009-2013 a total of eur 122 million has been budgeted for eritrea. i do not ask the president of the commission to know what these funds have been used for, but it would be helpful if mr barroso could explain his position to the eritrean government. very often when talking about countries with totalitarian regimes, eritrea is not mentioned, but a number of other countries are mentioned, and therefore it might be worthwhile to hear mr barroso's view of the eritrean state.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon strengthened respect for fundamental human and trade union rights. however, recent ecj rulings have shown that the protection of fundamental trade union rights needs to be further strengthened. in the laval, rüffert, viking and luxembourg cases, the court has consistently given trade union rights a subordinate value. these judgments have made it impossible to treat employees equally, regardless of their nationality. it is no longer possible for trade unions to guarantee the same pay and working conditions for posted workers as for domestic workers. i therefore also welcome the promise made by mr barroso here in this house before he was re-elected president of the commission. my question to mr barroso is this: when can we expect the commission to present a legislative proposal to deal with the problems arising from the court of justice's ruling? can the president of the commission give us this information today?
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner connie hedegaard said a number of good things, but also two very worrying things: she talks more about 2050 than about 2010, which i find worrying, and she talks more about lowering our expectations than about continuing to push for as high ambitions and expectations as possible for the meetings that are already scheduled. i want to ask the question: will the commission work towards an ambitious and legally binding climate agreement being signed in cancun in december, or will it continue to advocate a process where cancun is seen as just a step towards an agreement being signed in south africa or perhaps in some other country far in the future: 2011, 2012, 2020 or at worst even further in the future?
writer. - mr president! - what is it? each institution has its role to play in defence. parliament is the voice of the people in the eu and is supposed to defend the interests of its citizens. the commission calls itself the guardian of the treaty, but in this case it is the principle of transparency, human rights and the rights of parliament that you must protect. if we do not have access to these documents, none of the eu institutions will live up to their role and the expectations of the citizens. some commissioners stressed in their hearings that parliament should have access to documents on the same terms as the council of ministers and that parliament expects the commission to honour its commitments. many citizens are concerned about being deprived of their freedoms and rights by the constant flood of privacy-infringing legislation such as that on data retention, ipred 1, ipred 2, swift, etc. the eu cannot continue to negotiate acta unless citizens are given the opportunity to be involved in the process. the main issue today is transparency, but of course the content is also sensitive. the eu must clearly state that the conditions for our participation in the acta process are transparency and the defence of human rights and freedoms. only when we have defined what constitutes a free and open society can we fight crime and discuss the form of agreements within the framework of these rights. it is a completely absurd and unacceptable situation where we have to ask the commission behind closed doors about the content of the agreements we are supposed to decide on. citizens want guarantees that their electronic equipment will not be searched at the border, that they have the right to be connected and that criminal sanctions will not be imposed on them. we expect you to promise us today that you will participate fully in acta, or i shall end my speech with a classic line: see you in court.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission on finally having achieved what eu leaders have been talking about for decades. they have actually managed to get ordinary citizens interested in eu politics. acta is an issue that people on the net really care about. but, having said that, i still feel i must criticise the commission for the method it has used. the reason so many citizens are following the acta issue is because they are furious. they are furious at proposals to limit their freedom and invade their privacy just because some big companies are asking for it. they are furious because they see their fundamental civil liberties balanced against industry interests and coming up short. they are furious at the complete lack of transparency. this is not how it should be in a democracy. tomorrow we will be voting on a resolution that calls on the commission to live up to the treaty and put all acta papers on the table. i hope the resolution will be adopted by an overwhelming majority. the right to privacy, to information freedom and to fair and proper trial are the cornerstones of a free and open society. tomorrow we will show that this is a parliament that is prepared to stand up for those rights in the information age. we will demand the information that is both our right and our due as the elected representatives, and we will respectfully remind the commission that this is parliament, not a doormat.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr commissioner, i am both surprised and deeply disturbed that the commission is defending the right to confidential negotiations in certain areas of legislation on citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms, personal privacy, etc. it is never justifiable to withhold information from the public about such negotiations. i call for the immediate suspension of the negotiations and we can resume negotiations when the parties to the acta agree that they will be conducted in a transparent and democratic manner. i want all the papers on the table immediately, and it should be for all citizens. transparency and information are among the most basic principles of democracy, especially when it comes to fundamental freedoms and civil rights. we therefore ask for all the papers to be put on the table immediately and for all citizens to do so, because this is of course what is required in a democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the gsp system under discussion today is a very good and important tool, because it makes it somewhat easier for some of the world's perhaps poorest countries to export to and trade with europe. many of the countries of europe have built their prosperity in this way, and it is therefore important that we try to extend it to more countries. in a debate such as this and in the future work on the revision of the gsp, we must reflect on and focus on the fundamental task and the fundamental objective of the gsp, because this is to fight poverty. trade is the single most effective way to fight poverty and create economic growth, and it is important that we remember that. of course, the gsp is also a good way of putting pressure on countries to comply with international agreements and conventions and commitments on human rights, etc. but we must not forget that it is for development. of course, the eu should be able to strike out or deny countries that do not live up to their commitments to receive these benefits, but it is important to keep in mind the difficult balance. it is not that a country which is denied freer trade and new export opportunities will find it easier to live up to the commitments and the demands we place on it. there's a connection. corruption, poor working conditions and lack of respect for human rights contribute to poverty, but poverty also makes it harder to combat corruption, human rights problems and poor working conditions. i would like to hear the commissioner's view on this point 22, namely the risk that the withdrawal of trade preferences will make it more difficult for countries to get out of, for example, poor working conditions. i would also like to note that we are now calling on a number of countries to ratify and fully implement 27 ilo and un conventions. i would like to see a proper analysis of whether all eu countries have fully implemented and ratified all these un and ilo conventions. i think it is at least unlikely that everything is fully implemented and it is important to remember that now when we make demands on others.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism. we are strongly critical of hamas, not least of its attacks on israeli civilians, but we are also concerned that unconditional withdrawals from the eu could worsen the situation and further cause hamas to withdraw. we do not share the view that the eu's decision to continue the political isolation of hamas after its electoral victory in a free and democratic election was correct. we believe that, then as now, the eu is about assessing the chances of success of isolation and punishment, as opposed to critical dialogue and cooperation.
in writing. - the timing of the resolution on israel is ill-chosen. we can expect a full evaluation of the goldstone report shortly and i think we should not prejudge it. the situation is delicate and the conflict between the parties is polarized and we do not want to aggravate the situation by adopting a resolution which will certainly be perceived as inadequate by the parties involved. i also find it strange that the eu is adopting a resolution on a mandate that none of the eu member states supported in the un human rights council.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a european security policy. we therefore consider it important to have a document which also addresses the member states' perspectives on the subject and takes account of the different traditions and positions of the member states in the fields of foreign affairs, security and defence.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the report states that the eu's values and interests should be spread around the world by deepening the union's collective strategic thinking. this indicates a neocolonial point of view. the eu's competences, according to albertini, should cover all areas of foreign policy and all security issues, including a common defence policy which will lead to a common defence. this is a matter of divided opinion in europe. parliament also called for increased budgetary appropriations from the member states. this is particularly true in view of the need for the eu to establish as soon as possible a large representation at the un that speaks with one voice. the eu countries may of course retain their seats in the un, but the eu, with its unified voice, will have a great deal of influence over them. it also considered that the eu and nato must develop an intensive and effective partnership. this conflicts with my country's freedom of association. the citizens of europe have never had a chance to express their opinion on this development because the countries have refused them referendums on the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted against the report. this is probably one of the most militaristic documents i have read in my years in parliament. calls for the establishment of a permanent operations centre, whose mandate should include the operational planning and execution of military operations and strengthen cooperation with nato; the european defence agency shall develop military space surveillance. the commission is also proposing to set up a maritime surveillance system to limit, among other things, 'illegal' immigration. the report also calls for more member states to take part in eu military operations than has been the case so far. the eu and parliament shall participate in the discussions on the strategic design of nato. as a citizen of a non-aligned country, i cannot support this far-reaching report.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the arctic is a unique area which, because of the melting of ice and the new opportunities it brings, is increasingly the focus of debate. this is good because we should be discussing more, not only what the melting of the ice means for the opportunities to exploit the resources that are suddenly available, but also what responsibilities this entails and how best to preserve the arctic and assess the future consequences of our presence and activities in this sensitive natural area. however, before we formulate a common eu policy towards the arctic, we should spend more time assessing the current state of the arctic ecosystem. without it, it will be difficult to take adequate action. to think that all resources will simply be left where they are is, in my view, naive and unrealistic. instead, we should focus on ensuring that extraction, transport, tourism and other industries are run optimally so that nature is protected and preserved. this should of course be done in consultation and cooperation with the local population and in the light of the actual situation and circumstances prevailing there. the commission's report on the arctic is a good first step towards a coherent arctic policy. already during the swedish eu presidency, sweden supported the commission's decision to seek permanent observer status in the arctic council. however, i believe that both the commission's report and the debate so far have concentrated too much on water and too little on rural areas. some countries, such as sweden and finland, have extensive reindeer herding, mining and farming and forestry in arctic landscapes, which need to be taken into account to a greater extent. another dimension of the debate which we do not mention as often, but which we cannot stress enough, is the eu's strategic objectives and geostrategic interests in the arctic and the consequences that the new circumstances in this region may have for international stability. some eu member states are located in the arctic region. the rest of the area is in the eu's immediate northern neighbourhood. the common strategic objectives should therefore not be difficult to formulate and to obtain support from all eu member states. given the increased competition between the various countries and some unresolved conflicts, the eu must have every interest in working to ensure that the arctic does not become a security tension area.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for nearly 50 years, the united states has imposed a trade embargo. the cuban people have been suffering from poverty and oppression and this has been emphasized from many quarters here. many of you may be aware that human rights watch, in a november 2009 report entitled "new castro, same cuba", suggested that the embargo be lifted and that the cuban dictators be given six months to release the political prisoners and if they failed to do so, a smarter embargo would be used. it would be the kind of embargo that has actually been used a lot lately, i.e. freezing assets and freezing foreign investment and making sure that travel bans also existed. this would of course be the responsibility of the major democratic states and the european union. it would be interesting to hear what the minister thinks of this particular proposal that came from human rights watch.
madam president, i would like to thank you. achieving the transition to sustainable renewable energy and climate-smart societies will require more than wishful thinking, it will also require major investments. this requires both greater private sector responsibility for funding basic research and greater involvement of the member states. more money must also be made available from the eu budget. the budget simply needs to be adjusted to match the political priorities in terms of solar and wind, energy efficiency, etc. we must therefore re-prioritize and reallocate funds within the eu budget. only then can the set plan be credible and only then can we in this house be credible.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. but we do not think that the wording should be in this resolution on prisoners of conscience.
in writing. for 48 years, the united states has had a trade embargo against cuba. the embargo is a blow to the cuban people and is a constantly recurring excuse for the shortcomings of the castro regime. all of this is blamed on the american embargo, which prevents the population from more clearly blaming and distancing itself from the communist regime. the democratic opposition in cuba wants the embargo lifted. on october 29, 2009, 187 un member states voted to lift the embargo, with three voting to maintain it and two abstaining. no eu country voted to maintain the embargo. the european parliament has previously rejected the embargo against cuba and called for its immediate lifting, as called for by the un general assembly on several occasions. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing: the european parliament has also argued that the embargo is counterproductive. the following table summarises the data for the year of the reporting year: the current resolution rc-b7-0169/2010 deals with the situation of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in cuba. in the debate before the vote, i put forward a proposal that cuba should be given an ultimatum: the embargo is lifted, and within six months, all prisoners of conscience are to be released and reforms are to be launched. if the regime does not, new and more clever sanctions from the us, the eu and canada will be imposed on the cuban leadership: entry bans, asset freezes and foreign investment.
madam president, the council will meet tomorrow to discuss the future of a europe that is faced with enormous challenges. at the present time we are dealing with a financial crisis, leading to a jobs crisis, in combination with a climate crisis. an economic growth based on social and environmental grounds is crucial to kick-start europe, but i am afraid that the council and commission’s proposals for governance – however welcome – will be too vague and will not help to achieve the set targets. if implemented as it stands, europe 2020 will be another lisbon strategy – a failure. europe should instead dare to attack these challenges head-on with bold governance proposals. firstly, the open coordination method is not working and must be abandoned. instead, binding targets should be established and followed up by the commission, in accordance with the articles available in the lisbon treaty. secondly, if funding should be conditional on how well a member state lives up to its obligations according to the 2020 strategy, we cannot keep spending taxpayers’ money on governments that lie and cheat with statistics – solidarity, yes, but based on transparency. thirdly, the commission should publish its annual reports with policy recommendations in parliament before they are discussed in council. an open process would create transparency and permit citizen involvement. as european politicians, we should always strive to put the citizens at the centre of our policy. so let us make that promise a reality and upgrade the commission’s kitten to a tiger – and a tiger with teeth.
madam president, two things. the first concerns public finances, and the second competitiveness. last year at this time we were discussing in this parliament how to face the crisis there were those who said ‘let us meet the crisis by spending more and accepting bigger deficits’, and those of us who said ‘now we need to be in control of public spending in order to secure stability for the future’. now we see the results. some member states followed the policy of spending and accepting bigger deficits, and we can all see the consequences: increased public debt and increased costs for servicing the public debt by increased interest rates. that is the reality which is squeezing out welfare spending and investments in a lot of the member states. i think we need to learn from this: we need to abide by the rules we already have and we need to develop and improve the stability and growth pact and make it more able to meet crises in the future. but we have the same debate now, because some now say that we should delay the exit strategies and the exit from public deficits. that is wrong, because then we will undermine our ability to recover and will increase the cost for interest rates in the member states. the second thing is that competitiveness goes hand in hand with our ability to have stable public finances and to make the real changes we have talked about for decades. that is up to the heads of governments to do this week.
madam president, i would like to thank you. on 11 april, sudan is due to elect a president, a parliament and regional assemblies. it is the first election in sudan in 24 years and we are following developments in the country with great interest. sudan's president, umar hassan ahmed al-bashir, who seized power in a coup d'état, is wanted for arrest by the international criminal court in the hague for crimes against humanity. we all know how sudan has been tormented by his violent rule. in the first months of this year alone, no less than 400 people have been killed in south sudan. it's hard to say how free the election will be. on monday, al-bashir threatened to expel the international election observers. he said if they meddled in sudan's affairs, he'd cut off their fingers. we know sudan is a country in need. at the international donor conference in cairo on sunday, egypt's representative said the world needed to raise more than 1.4 billion euros for the reconstruction of the dafur region in sudan. i hope that the elections in sudan will create the conditions for a... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to thank mr lewandowski for his excellent report. i will make a brief comment on both reports. first of all, i would like to thank mrs sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska for her excellent report. however, we in the socialist group have tabled amendments on a few points which we consider important. first, we must be clear that climate change is still a heavy priority. we must not lose the momentum on this issue because of the failure in copenhagen, but instead we must work hard to do our job, which is to find solutions to the financing problem. secondly, as regards the europe 2020 strategy: our strategy calls for the union to also invest in and improve the implementation of the strategy. we must have an offensive struggle for economic development and for an ambitious social agenda, and these are policy areas that simply require more substance. this will require, among other things, a clear signal to the member states and the council that it will be necessary to review the budgetary ceilings for the next three years. in particular, in title 1 of the budget, which is the one dealing with growth and employment. as regards parliament's own budget, we must, even if we have great needs, take account of the economic situation and impose great restrictions on ourselves. we need to strengthen the capacity of parliament and especially of the political groups to live up to the lisbon treaty. but otherwise we must look for savings and efficiency. this is particularly true as heading 5 of the budget, on administration, is very demanding. for example, we recently discussed the new foreign service which will certainly require additional resources. we shall concentrate on the core task of parliament and, for the rest, apply great restraint.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in this day and age no one should be dying from tb. det sade ban ki moon i dag, på internationella dagen för tuberkulos. han har förstås rätt. ändå dör väldigt många, speciellt unga och fattiga, runtom i världen av tuberkulos i dag. därför måste vi öka vårt stöd till den globala fond som står för en mycket stor del av arbetet mot tuberkulos, malaria och hiv i fattigare delar av världen. men som kommissionen påpekade, så dör också människor i europa av tuberkulos. vi måste öka vårt samarbete för att stoppa spridningen av multiresistent tbc och hitta effektiva behandlingsmetoder som når alla utsatta grupper i samhället. här har europeiska centrumet för förebyggande och kontroll av sjukdomar, med huvudkontor i solna, en väldigt viktig roll att spela och jag är glad över att kommissionen har prioriterat att komma hit och hålla ett anförande om detta viktiga ämne idag.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the rapporteur for an important report. it is my conviction that the crisis can best be countered by more free trade and globalisation, not by protectionism. europe must therefore keep its markets open to combat recession, stimulate growth both in europe and globally and thus fight poverty. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is due to meet in tenerife in a few days' time. my colleagues from the acp countries always point out the problems that eu subsidised agricultural products are creating on their markets. they need trade. our policy is to prevent the creation of healthy markets for agricultural products in developing countries. the eu has shown leadership says the commissioner, but we can do much better. it is a matter of fair trade, mr commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, mr trichet, i would like to thank you for your work. the euro has turned ten years old and has largely passed its tests, although the ongoing turbulence has not yet seen an end. i am convinced that we will already see today an important first step towards a european solution, with or without the imf. our destiny is shared, as jean-claude trichet so aptly put it. the alternative of failure would be appalling. the ecb has been a reliable bastion in the face of financial hurricanes. it is worth repeating that the euro has been a success during the financial crisis and has been an anchor in europe, also for countries outside the euro area. the euro has brought stability and created the conditions for millions of new jobs, and this must not be forgotten in these days of crystal. the problems of greece and other euro countries cannot be blamed on the euro. lax public spending expansion will lead to problems regardless of the choice of currency system. on the contrary, the economic crisis would have been much worse had there been no euro. we would then have had to deal with speculation and competitive devaluations among more than 20 national currencies. several of us have been on it, i've been on a swedish finance committee with 500 percent interest. the greek crisis clearly shows that the pact to keep budget deficits at a low level must be strengthened. the underbelly is awfully big. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial instruments are properly used. i would like to conclude by saying something about speculation. sometimes when countries are subject to speculation, as my own country was in the 1990s, it is actually a good condition for us to be able to take action. when we were being harshly employed, including by george soros, we knew what time it was and we took the necessary action. you have to think about that too in the countries that are affected today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to highlight three main points in the reports we are discussing. firstly, we should not devote the debate on public finances solely to savings. we also need to focus on what we can do to kick-start growth and fight unemployment. in many countries cuts in public spending are required. but at the same time, it is also important to increase revenue through positive growth, by more people working and paying taxes. secondly, i appreciate that in his report mr scicluna raises the question of greater transparency in the financial sector. there's a lot of work to be done here. transparency is not only an excellent way to counter harmful risk behaviour in financial markets. moreover, increased transparency is essential for effective supervision and for the public confidence in public financial institutions, which is of paramount importance. the ecb should take the lead in this area and improve the transparency of its work without delay. a good first step would be to start publishing the minutes of the governing council meetings. transparency should also be a key principle in the establishment of the european systemic risk board (esrb). the main rule for the effectiveness of the src recommendations should be that they should be public. thirdly, i am pleased that in his report sven giegold stresses the importance of having a clear environmental and climate perspective even in times of crisis. we must not let the financial crisis slow down the green transition of the economy. instead, we should promote economic recovery by focusing on renewable energy sources, environmentally friendly transport systems and the development of green technologies. only by making such investments can we create growth that is sustainable in the long term.
- report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 65th session of the united nations general assembly (a7-0049/2010) adopted today, 25 march 2010, without a vote in the european parliament. we hereby declare that we do not support the report's call for the council to propose innovative financing mechanisms such as an international financial transaction tax.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we broadly agree with the priorities set out in the report, for example, we believe it is important to invest in young people, in research and innovation and in green technologies. we also believe it is important that the new eu strategy for growth and jobs, 'eu 2020', be given sufficient financial resources to be a success. we would like to stress, however, that we do not consider the main task of the eu's common agricultural policy to be to guarantee market stability and that we therefore do not want to see any permanent market support from the eu for milk and milk products.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the consumer has the right to accurate and clear information on the content of the product, its origin and whether it has been genetically modified. clear common rules create the conditions for a functioning market on a level playing field within the eu. when the market is functioning, informed consumers can, through their choices, drive the evolution towards even higher food quality. however, i voted against the report 'a quality policy for agricultural products: what strategy to follow?' 2009/2105 ((ini). in particular, the report is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. for example, it is not the eu's job to create a european knowledge bank of old recipes and historical cooking methods. in my view, the report gives too much weight to protected geographical indications. in addition, there is a risk of trade barriers being created with non-eu countries, given the emphasis on eu-produced goods. the labelling of origin is important, but origin does not in itself guarantee the quality of the product.
in writing. - for us liberals, investing in developing countries is a matter of the heart. we welcome new ways of bringing funds to the aid countries but we want to make it clear that we do not believe that a tax on international financial transactions is the solution to meet the millennium development goals or to correct global imbalances. it is also important to point out that the only possibility of such a tax being implemented is if it is global. we would rather stress the importance of eu member states living up to the current commitments on the levels of assistance that have been set. to create development and growth in developing countries, we should promote free trade and remove the eu's various direct and indirect trade barriers.
in writing. - on 25 march i voted against the report on the impact of the financial crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation (2009/2150 (ini)), mainly because of the wording in paragraph 31 on taxation of the banking system and on the taxation of international transactions. the introduction of a so-called tobin tax would risk undesirable side effects which would damage the international market, the market in which poor countries need to participate in order to develop economically on fair terms. in my view, it is not clear how the tobin tax, without global consensus and alignment, could help prevent future financial crises.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i also want to react to the initial discussion. i would like to thank parliament for its many excellent ideas, for its very good proposals and also for the constructive criticism we receive in this house, because it helps us further in our work. both the president of the european council and i have been very open in describing how difficult the situation was at the european council. we have been very open about the differences and divergences of opinion in looking for solutions to greece’s situation and on the eu 2020 strategy, and we have both said that we might have wished for better solutions. however, at the same time, we have to operate in the real world, where there are very often conflicting ideas, and always have to seek compromises. that is what we did, and in the end we achieved the best solution we could under the circumstances. i do not think we are doing any of us a good service if we belittle what we have achieved, because we have a solution for greece and we have a solution for the eurozone. we are in very close contact with the greek authorities and with the international community, and if there is a need and a request from greece, then i am sure the whole eurozone and the commission would mobilise and come to the rescue of that country. so we have the mechanism, we have the means, and we are ready to use them if it comes to it. i would like to thank members of parliament for their support for the eu 2020 strategy. i can only agree with the president of the european council that we are very optimistic about the future of this strategy and about reaching a political agreement on the targets. this is because the leaders in the european union know that those targets are very important for the preservation of the european way of life. they know that if we achieve them, then we can guarantee that europe will in 10 years’ time be one of the global leaders on the world stage, with a very competitive economy and with the strong social policies we have in europe today. therefore, the discussion we are having at this point is how to better motivate the member states and how to better calculate the targets so they are more precise and better monitored in the future. i am sure that with the help of parliament we can achieve those goals, and can achieve a positive outcome at the june european council. i would also echo one particular element of president van rompuy’s remarks, which concerns the preparation for the g20. we in the eu can only do so much. we can coordinate, and do better within our european framework. however, it is very clear that if we want to move out of the crisis and to live in a better world in the future, then we need global coordination, especially when it comes to such important matters as macroeconomic stability, economic policy and measures in the very sensitive financial field. that is exactly what the eu is planning to do, and the commission will come forward with the appropriate proposals shortly. i am sure that we will have a very fruitful debate on those proposals very soon.
mr president, first of all i would say to those of us who would like to invent new institutions, new rules and new funds, i do not think we can solve the problems that have come from not respecting rules by creating new rules. we need to respect the rules we have. one of the big lessons to be learnt from this crisis is that we should never have allowed the deficits to emerge as we have let them do. secondly, we – all of us – allowed this, because we softened the rules, and i know who was in the lead in softening them up. if i might be critical, i prefer ambitious reforms before ambitious ambitions. i think that there is a bit too much talk about ambitions and too little talk about action. when there is talk about action i note that the commission and sometimes the council talk about what member states should do rather than what we could do together in the european union. i welcome a task force, but we should not waste too much time because we know a number of the concrete actions that we should take: decrease and eliminate red tape; ensure that we invest more at european level on research and science; change the budget so that it allows for more growth and innovation; ensure that we can advance further with the knowledge economy by implementing the services directive and expanding the services directive to new areas; ensure that we have mobility in the labour market; ensure that we develop the financial markets to make them more stable, but not protectionist – because i would like to say to the commission that creating new protectionism regarding financial markets does not help the european economy. if we destroy opportunities for a transatlantic capital market, it does not help europe. so we know what to do. it would be good to have a task force but it would be even better without it.
mr president, there are two key words that are devastatingly missing in the council conclusions, and they are ‘transparency’ and ‘courage’. firstly on economic governance: if we do not have the courage and the transparency to work with the true facts, with true statistics and the truth, and act accordingly among friends within the european union, we will end in chaos. we have known this for years. when mr van rompuy says we have to learn lessons: we have learned the lessons in debates in plenary in this chamber for years and years and years. what we need now is action on statistics, otherwise, in biblical terms, we will build our decisions – our house – on sand, and we know that this is not sustainable. we also know that those who violated the growth and stability pact are eurozone countries. that makes it even more urgent to be true and bold, transparent and to have courage. as many speakers said, we also have to move away from open coordination methods. it is a secret coordination method today. what we need are open, binding targets and carrots and sticks for states to implement what is decided. then on sustainable and inclusive growth: we know that ‘sustainable’ should mean environmentally friendly; it should mean socially inclusive. why be so afraid of growth? we need economic growth and we need it spelt out in the conclusions of europe 2020. on climate, this road map and this way of talking: we will end up going round in circles. one thing that is immediately needed is energy efficiency. find the courage to put forward the proposals on energy efficiency. we know it creates jobs and competitiveness. finally, on the role of parliament: consulting is not enough. when we talk about bottlenecks, when we talk about flagship projects, we are talking about codecision and that needs much more than consulting.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? animal welfare is indeed something that most citizens of our europe care about. animal welfare is not just a matter for animals. it is also a question of our own identity, of what we think we are and what europe is and what our civilization should contain and of respecting and dealing with these fellow travellers in life. in my assessment, supported by the committee on agriculture, the vast majority of the five-year plan adopted by parliament in 2006, for which mrs jeggle was rapporteur, is being implemented in a reasonable way. there is one very serious piece missing, and that is compliance. that is why, when i outlined my next five-year plan - which i and we really hope will come this year - i focused on strengthening the enforcement of existing legislation. the directive on the lives, welfare and management of pigs is particularly relevant at the moment. it also concerns the ever-recurring question of the long and sometimes very painful transport of animals. so it is about enforcement, control and sanctioning of the laws, directives and regulations we have already adopted. i would also like to see a little fresh thinking and a little holistic thinking. i would like to see a general animal welfare law that sets a basic standard for europe, the eu and the internal market and for which minimum levels should exist. this is important for two reasons. firstly, because of the competition within the union in the internal market, that is to say, that no one should be able to compete with animal abuse. the second reason, and perhaps the most important, is that we are placing very high demands on european farmers and livestock keepers. then there must be protection against unfair competition from third countries. it is not reasonable, therefore, to set very high standards if we are not prepared to have fair trade. in addition, which may not always be so popular, we must somehow pay for the welfare of the animals. whether this is done in the store or through the tax form is another discussion. in addition, we must have a well-organised and stable network - that is to say, no new authority, but coordinating functions for the excellent scientific institutions we already have in europe. last but not least, it is important to control and manage the use of antibiotics in livestock farming. i am not talking about the risk of antibiotic residues in food, but of antibiotic resistance in particular in zoonotic bacteria, which is a huge threat to public health.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i must thank the rapporteur for an innovative approach which has been very pleasant. i am personally convinced that agriculture and forestry are the most important factors we have in terms of reducing co2 emissions, especially in terms of binding carbon to trees, plants and roots and fixing it in the soil. this is not about technology that we don't know how to do, and it's not about research projects, but it's about knowledge and tools that we already have. since i have also just spoken about animal protection and animal welfare, i would like to be radical and ask: is it not agricultural policy as such that we need to change? if we paid farmers for all the value they produce and which is vital - as in this case - for our entire society instead of paying for what you own, we would pay for what you do.
mr president, i would like to thank you. although a number of problems remain, the control and audit of eu funds is becoming more thorough and better. we can also see results, which is gratifying, but more can be done. not wasting a penny must be our motto. as regards the development funds: the eu is the world's largest donor of aid. it's good that we're making a difference in the world and showing solidarity with the world's poorest. i think the citizens of the eu are willing to do that, but the money must be used in the best possible way. we must not go to corrupt leaders who are self-serving, nor should we waste money on projects and initiatives that are not forward-looking and of poor quality. we have a special responsibility here in parliament. in committee i tabled a number of amendments which were also dealt with relatively favourably by the rapporteur. it is about the eu being clearer and demanding that the countries it supports uphold the most basic human rights, such as freedom of expression and the press. unfortunately, that is not the case today. let me give a very clear example: the eu's support for eritrea. in eritrea, critics of the regime are thrown in jail without trial and without knowing what they are accused of. for years, they have been imprisoned in appalling conditions. what have they done? they've been critical of the country's leadership and the president. we should be clearer here. as long as donor countries do not meet the most fundamental human rights requirements, eu support must be conditional, and i think the report should have been more forceful and clearer in this context. i think the taxpayers of europe would have expected us to do that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the commission and the council for the progress that has been made since parliament did the right thing in february, rejecting the swift agreement. parliament now has greater scope to demand the form of the agreement. a wise commission and a wise council would be right to listen to the demands and objections that parliament put forward in february. it is about our freedoms and civil rights, and it is about the foundations of the rule of law. that is why we cannot allow mass transmission, data transmission without restrictions. such an agreement confuses innocent citizens with those who may be guilty. we can only allow data to be transferred in relation to people who are suspected of crimes for very strong reasons. this is alleged to be a technical problem. in that case, we have to ask ourselves whether it is technology that should govern our legislation or whether it is our fundamental freedoms and civil rights that should govern. for me, the choice is obvious: it's our rights that should be the basis of legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for us liberals, it has been important since the end of the second world war to emphasize the transatlantic link between the united states and europe and to highlight cooperation in various fields. but as in all partnerships, complications and difficulties may arise, and they must be resolved. one of the more difficult complications has been dealing with the issue of people's legitimate right to privacy. i think it will become clear over time that it was very good that parliament rejected the temporary swift agreement. the eu must be democratic and open, and we, the elected representatives of this house, are an important part of that. the proceedings surrounding swift left a lot to be desired in this regard. parliament has been clear about what we are asking for in order to approve a new permanent agreement. the criteria are listed in the resolution we have to deal with and debate today, and when these requirements are met i look forward to a new vote. the conflict of objectives remains security on the one hand and the right to privacy on the other. let us now put history behind us and work with confidence towards the goal that is so important and of which a new permanent swift agreement is an important part, namely the safety, security and integrity of the citizens of europe.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. unlike previous speakers, i would like to compliment jan albrecht on the analogy from the world of cinema. i think it is important that we sometimes actually let culture show the social criticism that we need to learn here in parliament too. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, sophia in 't veld, for her commitment to protecting the integrity and the rule of law in this case as in many others. the spanish presidency said the other day that air traffic affects the right to freedom of movement, which is a fundamental right. we should bear that in mind today when we discuss pnr, because the use of pnr data is to determine who has the right to fly and who does not have that right. this obviously affects the rights, not only the freedom of movement but also the international conventions we have signed on our political and civil rights. the aim of the eu and internal mobility is to make borders disappear, and the eu would lead to increased free movement. it does for some people, but for asylum seekers, refugees, etc. - who are actually mostly women and children - the decision is about the right to fly or not. it could be a matter of life and death for these people. it is therefore important that we in parliament and the commission now really look carefully at how pnr data will be used. this is about free movement and it is also about international conventions and our civil rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the delegation of legislative powers. article 290 of the lisbon treaty gives parliament the power to object to and revoke amendments and additions to laws made by the commission. however, this requires an absolute majority, i.e. a majority of the number of elected members. in view of the absence of members, this normally amounts to 60 per cent of the votes cast. previously, only the council had this possibility, subject to a qualified majority of votes. the commission's expert groups handpicked from the member states have a great deal of influence in delegating legislation. for example, the commission, through a group of experts, authorised a new type of genetically modified maize despite the opposition of parliament and the council. another example is the original services directive, where the council and parliament deleted a clause which would have prohibited the requirement of a permanent representative in the case of the posting of workers, i.e. a trade union counterpart. however, the commission defied this and prepared guidelines stating that a permanent representative was not necessary. the commission wants to safeguard its independence and continue with its expert groups (com (2009) 0673). the rapporteur, mr józsef szájer, rejects the involvement of national expert groups as well as national authorities. i do not share the latter view.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats, after some hesitation, voted in favour of this report on animal welfare in europe. we would have preferred a high level of ambition for european animal welfare and we do not want protection to be designed in such a way as to prevent individual member states from setting higher standards than the eu rules. however, we have chosen to see the report as part of a continuing process whereby these requirements can eventually be met and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the paulsen report on animal welfare legislation. i would point out, however, that it is important that there be minimum legislation. member states and regions shall be able to implement more far-reaching animal welfare legislation.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european forestry policy. we believe that forestry policy should continue to be decided by the member states.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the reason is that le foll is in favour of a common forestry policy. forestry policy is a national concern, and the differences between eu countries are extremely wide. i also believe that, apart from cross-border environmental issues, agricultural policy is not suitable for community decision-making, especially after the enlargement of the eu to 27 countries. but as long as the eu's common agricultural policy exists, i want the decisions to be as good as possible for the obvious purpose of tackling climate change. i have great sympathy for several of le foll's proposals to address the climate threat, the great destiny of our time. but to advocate a common forestry policy is to take the wrong road.
in writing. - i have abstained/voted against the dorfmann report. the reasons for my position are set out in the report. the eu is far too large to deal effectively with agricultural aid to areas of natural difficulty. the diversity of the eu's rural areas is high. it is concerned with the crops grown, the moisture content of the soil, combinations of soil types and climatic conditions. climate change, in particular, makes it difficult to develop a variety of criteria and fixed amounts for grants. the eu has requested detailed maps from the member states, but only a few have provided them. an example highlighted in the court's report is that in spain the payment is eur 16 per hectare, while malta pays eur 250 per hectare for what is considered equivalent conditions. the common agricultural policy was drawn up when the ec/eu consisted of six member states. today the situation is quite different and even more difficult to understand. the management of agricultural aid should be the responsibility of the member states. that's where the local knowledge is. today we are in the midst of a crisis for the euro. a single currency is an obstacle to the adjustment of interest rates and currencies to different conditions within the euro area. a single agricultural policy is equally inappropriate for all 27 member states.
in writing. - on 5 may i voted in favour of the liberadzki report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008, section iii - commission and executive agencies. however, i voted to remove paragraph 376 which proposed that accession aid to turkey be reduced to 2006 levels, and paragraph 378 in which the european parliament calls on the commission to change the objectives of the instrument for pre-accession assistance, for example through specific forms of membership. i did so because i believe that it is wrong to question the accession process and prospects of the applicant countries in the report on the commission's discharge. i am firmly convinced that when accession negotiations are opened, regardless of the candidate country, they should be opened in a positive spirit and not obstruct and further complicate eu accession.
in writing. - the european parliament voted on the resolution setting out the priorities for the forthcoming eu-canada summit, i was one of the minority who voted against the proposal. the text is largely good, but there are two paragraphs which i simply cannot support. paragraph two states that a priority topic of discussion at the summit should be 'the question of whether to introduce a bank levy or a transaction tax at the global level'. i am strongly opposed to this kind of charge or tax on international transactions. in my view, there are a number of other economic issues which should be given priority at the summit. i am also concerned about the wording of paragraph 6, which reads 'parliament notes that the canadian government introduced visa requirements for czech citizens in response to the large influx of roma into the country'. this may be the canadian justification, but i do not see any reason for us europeans to support it, or even to cite it as a point in any of the eu texts. since these two phrases were included in the resolution and the request to delete them unfortunately did not win a majority, i voted against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. - cyanide is used in sweden's gold mining industry in closed systems in an environmentally sustainable way. cyanide is destroyed before water is discharged from the system, and best available technology (bat) provides limit values that are well below internationally agreed safety levels. high safety standards will help to avoid the environmental impact of cyanide. these mines contribute to employment in slum areas and no alternative technology has been developed so far. research and development should also be encouraged in this area, but in the present situation a ban would be fatal, both socially and economically.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides. cyanide is one of these dangerous substances and its handling is regulated for obvious reasons. in sweden, all cyanide is handled in closed processes during mining and is considered safe. in other parts of the eu, the rules are not as strict. we chose to abstain in the final vote because we cannot support a rapid total ban which would punish the mining industry even in those countries where cyanide handling is considered safe. we want the commission to take immediate action to ensure that all member states have safe and closed cyanide processes and that in the long term cyanide is phased out of production by means of a ban.
in writing. - in yesterday's vote in the european parliament on a general ban on the use of cyanide-based mining technology in the european union, i voted against the motion for a resolution, as did many other swedish meps. cyanides are toxic and it is essential that their use is within the framework of established environmental guidelines and that the coating is carried out in closed processes. this is routine in europe, and the risk of hazardous emissions is thus minimized. a total ban on the use of cyanide in mining would mean that european, including swedish, gold mines would have to shut down. in my view, a total ban on cyanide-based mining technology is not advisable until we have technically, economically and environmentally viable alternatives to cyanide coating. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we have known for many months that greece is in a very difficult position. we know that the euro is depreciating at a rapid rate before our eyes and that government bond spreads are rising. no one can still doubt that europe is in a serious crisis, just when we thought we were back on our feet again. we seriously need to address the issues of competitiveness, of productivity and of sustainable economic growth, but still the leaders of europe are bickering about what action to take. this is not the time. we need real action, and we need it now. since it is apparent that peer pressure in the council does not work, we need binding targets and new transparent means to scrutinise the reports about each member state. we need a fundamental respect for the stability and growth pact and we need reliable and true figures on which we can base our decisions. to put additional pressure on governments, structural funds and other european support must be tied to governments’ ability to provide us with correct figures. let me make a comparison. when a small farmer makes mistakes on half a hectare he or she loses out on the support for everything he or she does for a number of years. that is the comparison we have to make. that is why we are so tough on governance in parliamentary resolutions. it is also most embarrassing that the commission is not putting forward proposals which we have been discussing for years. to create a platform for future growth, the strategic policy agenda must be included in the eu 2020 strategy. let me take some examples. we negotiated the economic recovery plan. most of it is not enforced. parliament asked to have a plan b, so it is included in the results, but the plan b is not yet set into action. we have decided on a set plan, new energy technology. we still do not have 50% of the funding for the set plan, a real strategic tool. the most cost-effective means to reduce greenhouse gases is to move forward with a strategy for energy efficiency. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to put energy efficiency at the top of the agenda in action. the existing legislation must be stepped up because it is not sufficient. we need the promised energy efficiency action plan, promised for so long. we need energy in infrastructure, the energy equivalent of fast trains, super grids and high-tech smart grids are needed, and we have the money for this. we need to ensure technical innovation and we also need to encourage and put forward a strategy to combat social exclusion and gender inclusion. in the light of the current crisis, the commission must step up to its responsibility and finish what we started together. the council has to be bolder and stop bickering. we will put forward a bold resolution on the second step of the 2020 strategy.
madam president, i think it is important that we talk about good governance in the sense that it is, of course, important that we put pressure on all of us to bring in the reforms that are needed, but let us not forget that the main good governance we have in our own hands is to ensure that the european union does what the european union should do. we have had some shortcomings there; how we have upheld the stability and growth pact is one of those. let us not forget that before we construct new rules we need to stick to the most fundamental rules, but let me also point to some other things. regarding financial markets; let us talk about financial markets as a part of the economy, not as a separate sector, because we will never get investments and new jobs if we think this is a separate issue. i was a little bit disturbed when i noted that the chair of the basel ii committee assumed that the new rule for capital requirement will lower economic growth by 1%. that is a rather low level from him. increasing the capital requirement might lead to less investment and that is really not what we need to do when we want to create a new confidence in the european economy at the same time as we are exiting from the budget deficits we have. let me point to one of the things we can do together, and that is to create the knowledge economy. it is a paradox that the more our societies and economies are turning into knowledge economies, the less of an internal market we have because the internal market was legislated for industry and the old-time economy, and less for the service sector, where we need to go further regarding the service directive. let me also say we should be implementing a reform making european universities more independent and more european, open for students and researchers and creating a dynamic development in the knowledge society. let us stick to all the things we can do together at european level. that is the best european good governance we can have.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i come from the same member state as the previous speaker, but i am on the left side of politics. this is also reflected in the proposals which we social democrats are supporting. we see the state of the world. we see the situation in greece, street fighting, an impending general strike, desperation, anger, anger at the market's play on entire countries. this has of course also been made worse by the fact that the core of the euro countries have failed the member state greece. but crisis is contagious. it's dangerous for all countries. few countries can count on going to safety. for this reason, we must all be involved in crisis management and come up with good proposals. but we must choose a path that means we don't just reach short-term solutions, short-term successes, and put out a fire that then flares up and burns down a lot of things around us. so first of all we have to invest in things that keep up with demand. what concerns me about the june summit is that it is taking the path that the previous speaker spoke of. it is important that the summit makes clear commitments not to put europe on the back foot. it's all about keeping up with demand. it is a question of stimulating investment. it is a question of reducing unemployment for women, for men, for young people and for the elderly. i myself was very disappointed by the equality scam that the last council of ministers presented after its meeting. second, we need to start the transition to climate-smart societies. it is clear that in every crisis there is also an opportunity for development - to change course, to change direction. it is incredibly important that the commission gives connie hedegaard the space to actually be a climate politician who can help make a difference in europe at the cancún meeting. the third is the financial markets. in the committee on emergency situations we had a visit a few weeks ago by an american professor who put it this way: in the united states, we say we can't regulate the financial markets because they don't do it in europe. we should, but we don't dare. what do you say in europe? well, you say you can't regulate the financial markets because they don't in the united states. so we're fucking each other like that. there are winners in such a policy, and there are many losers. we must dare to change that in this europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. greece's cause is everyone's cause, including those countries outside the euro area. what europe needs today is unity and strong action, not further division. that is why, commissioner, it is extremely sad that 11 countries are not present on friday. we have a common destiny in europe, but unfortunately that is not the case at the moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are properly regulated. i am a liberal and i can also see that, but it must be done in a balanced way and coordinated globally. let us act forcefully and aggressively if necessary, but let us not act in panic but let us keep our heads as cool as possible so as not to further damage the economic upswing that greece is enjoying after all. when i heard mr bloom, i was really upset. he is not here now, but to compare the european union with the soviet union is an insult to all those who suffered under soviet tyranny and all those millions who died. i think mr. bloom should apologize to all those people that he has insulted.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. the eu's accession to the europe agreement has long been on the agenda. now there is a legal basis for the merger to become a reality. we can all rejoice in this. the eu's accession to the echr will mean that the protection of fundamental rights will be complemented and strengthened, that the citizens of our member states will be better protected in relation to the activities of the eu, and that there will be better convergence of case law in the field of human rights in the two european courts, the hague and strasbourg respectively. with accession to the echr, the eu institutions will be subject to the jurisdiction of the european court of justice. it will ensure independent external monitoring of the eu's respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. this is a very important step. it is so easy to be lulled into thinking that we in europe are free from the kind of human rights violations that are being committed in other parts of the world. as member states of the union, we have laws, statutes and a deep-rooted european foundation of values that safeguard our rights. the treaty of lisbon, as it begins, states that freedom of expression, of the press and of religion are european freedoms which must be respected everywhere in the union. unfortunately, this is not always the case, as there are member states which violate fundamental rights in the eu. unfortunately, it happens that we in this house are also caught unawares and allow this to happen. as the eu is joining the european convention to strengthen and complement the rights and freedoms of its citizens, it is important that we in parliament legislate and act in accordance with the convention. the fact is that in our member states there is still a lot to be done to clean up our own backyard before the beautiful words that constitute our common basis of values become reality.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to highlight four issues in this debate. firstly, it is unfortunate that there is a tendency to pit small and large companies against each other in the automobile industry. to some extent they have different interests, but what we must focus on first is creating a regulatory framework that allows them to work effectively together. secondly, it is very positive that competition in the new car market has improved in the last year. it is a good example that no market is impossible and that in the long run much can be achieved by measures to strengthen competition. i hope that we will see an equally positive development in the aftermarket in the future. thirdly, it is important that the commission closely monitors the development of competition in the new car market. follow-up should be continuous. all stakeholders should be given definitive notice as soon as possible of the rules that will apply from june 2013. fourthly, we should intensify the debate on how to make the transition to green, more environmentally friendly cars. it's a very necessary process. firstly, the competition rules must be flexible in relation to the subsidies needed to allow the introduction of electric cars and other environmentally friendly alternatives on the market, and secondly, the rules must ensure that environmentally friendly cars are not disadvantaged at the dealer level or in the aftermarket.
for the alde group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for an interesting and good report. the alde group would like to start by congratulating the bank on a good job. the eib showed both speed and resolve in taking action when the financial crisis hit hard. the bank showed that it was able to meet the major challenges it faced when the global economic crisis hit the economies of the european union. the bank increased its cash position and significantly increased its lending volume. this mitigated the downturn of the financial crisis and was important for a moderate recovery. the eib's important role in supporting smes, as mentioned here, should be highlighted and cannot be emphasised enough. these measures have significantly alleviated the crisis. small businesses are the engine of our economy. it represents 99 per cent of all our businesses in europe and employs 100 million people. the eib's strategy for securing sustainable growth in the union over the long term is of the utmost importance, as has been repeatedly demonstrated with regard to green development, including investment in the so-called tens. a well-functioning transeuropean transport network is one of the most important components of the european growth initiative; the icelandic volcano may have taught us something. bridging the gap in europe is another important part of the eib's work. the eu benefits from having stable and economically stronger neighbours. in this context, we see the eib's work as being of particular strategic importance. transparency, openness and the fight against fraud are particularly important themes. we in the liberal alde group are pleased that the eib has actually followed the recommendations made by parliament over so many years. we think it's very good. in this context, the eib can act as a beacon of openness for other eu institutions. finally, a note on the eib's minutes. it is very discouraging that gender equality within the eib is still so poor. women are still very much underrepresented, mr maystadt, including among the senior staff of the eib in particular and the directors, and represent only about 20% of the workforce. this is where the eib must improve! this is stated in the diversity strategy of december 2008. in summary, three good points and one less good, or even bad.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the council and the commission. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to my colleague astrid lulling. thanks to the very dedicated and excellent work of astrid lulling on this matter, we are now at the second reading stage. we have an agreement on the right of selfemployed persons and life partners to equal treatment and, on the part of the gue/ngl, we support the proposal. the workforce we're talking about is often women, and they've been invisible before. with a necessary revision of the previous directive, we will remove the discrimination which has been the case and which has affected self-employed people and their life partners. of course, women with their own businesses and the partners of selfemployed persons are covered by the social security systems of the member states. an important part of the directive under discussion is also that the commission, in the event of a future directive on extended parental leave for employees, will inform parliament and the council so that we can possibly equalise the rights of employees and self-employed workers. i would also add that in view of the eu 2020 strategy and the efforts to increase growth in the eu, the discrimination against women self-employed must end. they should also have the right to parental leave and to reconcile work and family life, something we so often discuss.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in order to make the right choices and exercise their power, consumers need access to information about the goods. this report is a first step and involves labelling textiles with the country of origin, i.e. information on where the goods have been manufactured. as consumers, we have a right to know. we also have an opportunity now to ask the commission to go further in empowering consumers. i am thinking, among other things, of health and safety signs and warnings. allergic persons shall not be exposed to products containing traces of allergenic substances. citizens often feel that the rules of the internal market put business and industry first. i and the gue/ngl group believe that it is high time that consumer demands were given priority. this would benefit both consumers and serious businesses.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the swedish epp delegation voted yesterday, 18/05/2010, against the recommendation for second reading on the council's common position at first reading with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing directive 86/613/eec, a7-0146/2010. it is urgent that member states work together to ensure equal treatment for men and women, so that more women can start their own businesses. however, we do not believe that the eu should be the one to take these gender equality policy decisions, which have far-reaching consequences for the public finances of the member states. the member states must be allowed to do this themselves. furthermore, we do not consider that equal treatment between women and men is achieved when only self-employed women (and not men) are guaranteed benefits and parental leave. finally, we would like to emphasise that increasing gender equality is one of the major challenges facing the eu, and sweden should be able to inspire other eu countries. in the current economic crisis, it is of the utmost importance to support and encourage self-employment.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. however, we are very critical of mandatory origin labelling because we are convinced that it would lead to higher prices for european consumers and to worse conditions and increased costs, especially for smes. we believe in free trade and therefore believe it is important not to create more technical barriers to trade through unnecessary regulation. we are instead in favour of a voluntary labelling system based on consumer demand for origin labelling.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not crossed by the eu's external borders. this is mainly because we do not support the proposal to introduce an international tax on transactions. the introduction of a tobin tax would only harm developing countries and increase poverty. however, we would like to stress that there are things in the report that we sympathize with, such as the fact that eu export subsidies for european agricultural products have had a disastrous impact on the food security of developing countries and on their development of a sustainable agricultural sector.
in writing. − we support the report's aim of making eu policy consistent with the union's ambition to support development in low and middle income countries. however, the keller report describes, for example, a developed labour market and clear competition rules as obstacles to the achievement of the mdgs. this means that we cannot support the report as a whole. clear rules of the game are a prerequisite for a functioning market economy and trade in services is an important part of developing countries' economies.
in the european parliament's vote on the report 'a coherent policy for development - establishing the political framework for a common strategy at eu level', i voted against. the pursuit of responsible and effective development policy should be a key focus of the european parliament. it is something that i and many others on the committee on development work for every day. the eu's taking action with one hand - for example, by agricultural subsidies that reduce the competitiveness of developing countries - and then providing aid with the other hand to 'repair the damage' is, of course, backward and anything but responsible. the debate on a coherent eu development policy is important and useful. however, the report in question contains elements which i cannot support, such as the introduction of a financial transaction tax and the use of the vaguely defined term 'environmental rights'. however, much of the report, which was voted on in plenary, is very good, and my vote against should not be interpreted as a refusal to participate in the work for a consistent policy for development. on the contrary, it is a process that i am very much interested in - and i am interested in seeing it done in the best possible way.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has tabled an opinion on the proposal. - madam president! - what is it? first of all, i would like to thank mr miroslav mikolášik for our excellent and fine cooperation on this important report. the challenges in the field of human organ donation and transplantation are many. we have a responsibility and we have to live up to the expectations of so many people who live in uncertain expectation day by day, longing for the new life that a new organ can bring. the difference between life and death never gets clearer than that. the european parliament's mission also involves a determined fight against the abominable trade in human organs. we're doing it too. clear ethical and safety rules can better ensure the human right to his body, his integrity and his self-determination. i am glad that the views expressed by the committee on legal affairs have been taken into account. it is difficult to imagine a more beautiful image of our common mission than that of protecting the lives of people around us in our member states. this report makes that picture clear.
madam president, i would like to thank you. about 95 percent of us humans would like to have an organ transplanted into us if it would extend our life. but only about half of us are prepared to release to organs. so here we need to form political opinion. can the coordination be improved? yes, of course! a heart that has been surgically removed from the body of a deceased person is only viable for four hours. that's how it's been. but today, it's good for up to 24 hours if we want to use the modern medical technology available for transplantation. today there is also medical knowledge to, simply put, wash or recondition lungs and make them available for transplantation in a completely different way than before. as is well known, the lungs are alive two hours after death. let us push for the practical application of actual knowledge. i believe that this is a prerequisite for coordination to become a reality and not just something we talk about.
acting president of the council. - madam president, the european area of freedom, security and justice is one of the european union's greatest achievements. it is one of the advances in cooperation between member states, in civil cooperation, in criminal cooperation, in internal security; one of the most important results of the european project and the one that has come closest to that unfinished subject which the european union always has, which is the relationship with the citizens. it is certainly this aspect of the union's policies that citizens of the union feel most strongly as an added value in some of the most important aspects of their daily lives, in the enjoyment of their freedoms or, for example, in security. that is certainly one of the great achievements of the area of freedom, security and justice. there have even been some decisions taken by the council of the european union in this area of freedom, security and justice at a time before the treaty of lisbon - when that area was practically intergovernmental - which relate precisely to the subject we have been discussing earlier, which is the investigation of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, at the national level. for example, the council decisions of 13 june 2002 and 8 may 2003 established a mechanism for member states to cooperate at national intergovernmental level in the prosecution of these crimes, which in some states - and we all remember the pinochet case, for example - are even part of their legislation. this is the case, for example, in spain, not to mention other countries, where there is what is called universal justice - crimes which are so serious that even if they have been committed outside the territory of a country, they can be tried by that country, if it has the possibility to do so, even if that means going beyond that sacrosanct principle of territoriality in criminal law. the principle has been exempted in practice by some states where particularly intolerable crimes, profoundly damaging to the dignity of humanity itself, are prosecutable even outside the territory where they are committed. one aspect of this area of freedom, security and justice is precisely what has been called the stockholm programme, at a time when the treaty of lisbon has already opened up this area not only to the intergovernmental sphere but also to the strictly and clearly community sphere, clearly characteristic of the community method, and where a leading role is therefore introduced that was not previously held by the european parliament or the court of justice itself. that stockholm programme is of great importance, and that is why we welcomed its adoption in december 2009 by the council and by the european council thereafter. a programme which sets out a clear work programme for the european union and its member states, placing the interests and needs of citizens at the heart of its priorities for the years ahead. it is therefore a programme of exceptional importance. within that programme - and let me refer again to the previous debate - there is an obligation for the member states to cooperate with the international criminal court in prosecuting crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, so that they do not go unpunished. and that is already part of the stockholm programme which was adopted at the end of last year during the swedish presidency. we are therefore faced with a programme of exceptional importance which must be developed and put into practice, and in this connection we recognize the relevance of the commission communication entitled 'ensuring an area of freedom, security and justice for european citizens - action plan implementing the stockholm programme', which presents initiatives intended to contribute to the implementation of the programme. the stockholm programme allows us to build on past achievements and to meet new challenges, taking advantage of the new opportunities offered by the lisbon treaty. it's a new time. institutionally, it is probably more of a genuine revolution - let me be very clear - because it is a genuine legal and institutional revolution that an area of freedom, security and justice which was previously fully intergovernmental has now clearly moved into the community-based sphere. and that has its initial expression in the important stockholm programme. the council recognizes the importance of the european parliament as a co-legislator and institutional partner in this respect in relation to most of the measures we are going to adopt over the next five years.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, you know it already, but let me briefly present you with the action plan of the commission, entitled ‘delivering an area of freedom, security and justice for europe’s citizens’, an action plan implementing the stockholm programme. this action plan is a guide for very concrete measures to be taken during the next five years. but first let me go back a step: it has been proven by events of the last weeks and months that there is a shared sense of urgency to confront the economic and social situation of europe, as well as a very clear expectation from our citizens that the eu must act rapidly and decisively. you will recall the adoption of the work programme of the commission at the end of march, the content of which showed that the commission not only has the intention but is already taking action. it focused, among other things, on the need for the eu to build a citizens’ agenda which puts the people at the heart of european action. the action plan in the area of justice and home affairs is the first strategic initiative of the new commission in order to put this work programme into practice; it follows very closely the mandates, as well as the broader philosophy, of the stockholm programme, and it takes into consideration the proposals and suggestions by parliament and by the council. the challenge of ensuring the respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, while also integrating and guaranteeing security in europe, is addressed here in what we think to be a comprehensive way. the set of initiatives laid down are a road map – a road map to a free and secure europe. we believe that you cannot separate freedom from security: they are two sides of the same coin; they are all related to the citizens and this is one way of getting citizens more acquainted with europe. the action plan will guide us in delivering an ambitious set of very concrete measures in a field where the added value of europe will be very visible to our citizens. it is also a powerful message reiterating what we have been discussing before, that the treaty of lisbon and the eu charter of fundamental rights are actions for the citizens. as all these actions are interlinked, indispensible and consistent with the scale of ambition which have been fixed in the treaty of lisbon and in the charter of fundamental rights, we have to reach this ambitious outcome as quickly as possible in line with citizens’ expectations. that is also why parliament should not view this action plan as being carved in stone; there might be unexpected events, and if there are such unexpected events the commission will certainly make use of its right of initiative in order to help solve the problems. that is why we have the intention – and this will be important for parliament – to submit a mid-term review of the implementation of the stockholm programme in 2012, in order to ensure that the programme remains in line with european and global developments. but as the minister-in-office of the council already has rightly said, this action plan is not only about what the european commission is going to propose, it is also very much about what the member states are going to do; how the member states are going to take their initiatives where subsidiarity is at stake, how they are going to implement european union decisions in their national law and how they are going to collaborate with other member states. therefore, this action plan will only be a success story in the end if all the institutions play their role, and i am very confident that parliament will help us to advance quickly on the right road.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission for its timely presentation of a very concrete action plan to empower european citizens. i have been very active in the discussions in parliament because i truly believe that the stockholm programme is the best way forward to a citizen-centred europe: a europe for citizens, with the people. i therefore invite the commission to stick to the vision of the stockholm programme when presenting the specific proposals for the next five years. the programme adopted represents a real balance between providing security to citizens while respecting their rights, freedoms and integrity, and strengthening their citizenship. on the action plan, i particularly welcome the measures presented recently to combat trafficking in human beings and child abuse and to increase the protection of unaccompanied minors – to mention just a few. i also welcome the fact that the action plan includes a strategy to combat female genital mutilation, domestic violence and violence against women. i nevertheless wish that this proposal could have been presented earlier than scheduled, madam commissioner. we also need to encourage the participation of citizens during the process and ensure the transparency of decision-making and the openness of documents. i hope that the measures will be presented in a user-friendly way. to conclude, i look forward to continuing working with my colleagues in parliament, and with the commission and the council, to really deliver an area of freedom, security and justice, and make it a reality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in some important respects, this more common economic policy also has an impact on the eu budget. this concerns the financing of the strategic flagship projects europe 2020. it is about some of the costs and guarantees and so on for the lending mechanism and financial market control. this is not least due to a number of new tasks arising from the treaty of lisbon. in the european parliament we are keenly aware that many member states are now in a very difficult economic situation, often with difficult national budgetary problems. on the other hand, it is clear that the eu can now contribute to the efforts needed to restore the member states' economies and to boost growth and jobs. the eu budget should therefore focus on areas where the eu can add value, where member states' and eu budgets can complement and support each other. but even then, the member states cannot give the eu new heavy tasks without contributing the necessary resources. i am thinking of research policy, of flagship projects, of investments in education and infrastructure that are necessary to ensure a better economic future. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the spirit of this increasingly common economic policy is also reflected in a constructive approach in the negotiations on the 2011 eu budget, in the mid-term review of the long-term budget and in the debate on the new budgetary framework after 2013. otherwise we will not make progress in the area of the joint action for growth and jobs.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe needs more cooperation and more solidarity, not protectionism and nationalism. we know that. history has taught us. i find it difficult to understand the fear of the finance ministers in the face of the proposal for a preliminary examination of the member states' budgets. the last few months have shocked and should shock even hardened finance ministers. one can see the extent of national self-assertion. i'm willing to look at other countries, but not my own. greece, spain and portugal, but not my country. noli me tangere. i'm not going to do that. our interdependence requires openness and trust. the swedish and finnish governments, both of which have experience of the severe crisis of the 1990s, should also wholeheartedly support olli rehn's proposal.
mr president, the commissioner informed us just before the vote about the thrombin issue. i wonder if you could ask him to provide the statistical data to justify his statement that it is economically beneficial to consumers to replace cheap meat parts and put them in beef-like products, rather than using them today in sausages and other products. i would like him to show the statistical evidence that it is economically better for consumers, because they have so far not proven that. the commissioner also made a comparison with minced meat but we know that the hygiene standards for minced meat are not the same as for prepared meat products, so i would question if both statements by the commissioner are correct. if he misinformed parliament, just before the vote, that would be a serious error. i would like you to write a letter to the commissioner to justify those statements.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i and the moderates have voted against the bill to ban thrombin. the commission proposal proposes that meat that is bound together be clearly labelled and that it should not be allowed in restaurants and large kitchens because it is difficult to inform consumers clearly. we need to de-dramatize the meat glue debate. thrombin is naturally present in all meat. to avoid thrombin, you have to stop eating meat altogether. according to the experts of the european commission, thrombin is not dangerous to health. it is knowledge that is scientifically based. the important thing is that the food is safe and that the consumers are not deceived. the packaging must contain accurate information on thrombin and the labelling must be clearly legible. why should we ban it? we're opening up pandora's box. you want the politicians to run the food? where does it end? there is no reason to restrict the freedom and choice of consumers. i say "absolutely!" to the policy of intimidation about food that is not dangerous or unhealthy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of products is not restricted to the labelling of foodstuffs.
in writing. - i believe that the committees which will have more important tasks as a result of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty need to be strengthened. this justifies a reinforcement of the staff of the secretariat of parliament and the political groups in these committees. however, i do not share the view that we members need to increase our staff. i would also have preferred to see parliament's resources increased through efficiency and redistribution, so that the overall budget is not increased. as leader of the european socialists in the committee on budgets, i have also pursued this line in the negotiations with the leadership of parliament. finally, we reached a compromise so that the proposal is now partly financed by savings of eur 4.4 million. i still believe that further savings should have been included in the proposal, but as i have been involved and actively promoted in these negotiations, i have chosen to support the compromise reached.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the supplementary budget for 2010. increasing the secretarial allowances of members by eur 1 500 per month to cope with the increased workload brought about by the lisbon treaty is not sustainable. firstly, it is not possible to employ trained experts for eur 1 500 a month. secondly, there are no places for new staff in parliament's offices. thirdly, some of the budgetary resources have been taken from the reserve for specific building investments. fourthly, the rapporteur (helga trüppel) for the 2011 budget, category 5, has stated that secretarial compensation cannot be guaranteed in the future until a proper evaluation of its usefulness has been carried out. i see this increase as an unjustified increase in the already high level of secretarial fees. this is happening at a time when the unemployed, single women, pensioners and many socially vulnerable groups are being forced to make sacrifices to save the failed european project.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the europe we decide on today will also determine what europe will look like in 2020. the decisions we fail to make today will lead to new crises. the decisions we make today must be long-term. it is a serious problem that so many of the decisions are still short-term and very much guided by a right-wing thinking where economies in crisis are to be put on a hunger strike, that we are discussing greek pensions instead of the behaviour of the big banks and the real estate and financial market players. we must get this sorted out, otherwise we will be faced with a europe 2020 that is in a crisis perhaps even worse than today. i call on the commission to seriously promote a change that means abandoning superstition in market solutions, regulating markets, making major investments in things that are in the common interest. it may be about transport systems, it may be about energy supply, it may be about other important solutions where the member states cannot stand alone but where the eu and the commission must act. i also hope that the commission is prepared to put forward proposals which show that we are taking the transition to a sustainable society seriously. that is, we are reshaping our industry so that it becomes competitive and can create new jobs. we cannot do that by imagining that we can drive on old tracks. it also requires investment, but it could lead to the 28 million unemployed that we have today being effectively affected. i also call on the commission to show the eu's workers the respect that will be required in this crisis for them to be part of building a stronger and better society. the european union must be able to take action to combat this crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i used to say that we had a triple crisis in europe with financial markets, jobs and climate. but now, sadly, we have a quadruple crisis if we add the state budget crisis. it has made it painfully clear that the european union is in dire need of vision. european integration has, until now, focused on creating new projects without making sure that they work properly. i believe that the time has now come for us to deal with our problems and instead work hard to deepen the existing institutions. the mistakes that have been made can be corrected and the union can still work for – and with – its citizens. europe needs a forward-looking union. for me the direction is clear: i want a europe which is open, inclusive and green. the flagship proposals in the commission’s europe 2020 strategy are important tools to create that europe, provided that we can make them come true. and here i have some question marks. firstly, the overarching goal of the strategy is to create a more dynamic and competitive economy. in some countries the participation of women in the labour market is as low as 40%, and this is shameful. a gender-equal labour market is a precondition for boosting jobs and for tackling the demographic challenges. i hope that the council and commission really take seriously the fact that the council’s conclusions have included gender equality for a couple of months. an inclusive society needs more jobs. unemployment is the main reason why poverty exists. youth unemployment in spain, at 44%, is devastating. we have endless opportunities to create green jobs, but our policies must be aimed in the same direction. an energy-efficient europe is also a driving force of innovation, and the energy equivalent of fast trains, supergrids and high-tech smart grids is needed to improve europe’s competitiveness. i must commend the liberal commissioner, neelie kroes, on being the first to really outline a clear flagship proposal on the digital agenda, and i am looking forward to having the same kind of in-depth material on the rest of the flagship platforms before june, so that we can also cooperate in the decision-making. but, mr commissioner, we have the eu strategy pointing in one direction, and your budget proposal is, to be truthful, pointing in another direction. as well as regional funds, social funds and the agricultural fund, we have to streamline and have coherence in our common tools. we need transparency, and we need the same kind of statistics and we need sticks and carrots for member states, not only to sign up to promises but also to keep them. this is important for the european citizens and for us in parliament. we need to strengthen the growth and stability pact, and we fully support the package of commissioner olli rehn. to re-establish trust, as you mentioned, mr commissioner, we need the indicators on the rest of the flagship proposals. that would re-establish our trust in you as a commission, and maybe, if we can cooperate on decision-making, citizens’ trust in us.
mr president, the financial support package that was presented almost two weeks ago was a necessity, but not a solution to the problems that europe is facing. now there is a need for action, for decisions and for restored confidence in public finances. i would say that we need to discuss the 2020 strategy, but we need even more a 2010 strategy, describing the action that needs to be taken now in order to restore growth, reduce deficits and create optimism. but there will be none of the growth which is needed without restored confidence in public finances. on this point the socialists are failing. they are defending the same policies that led to the deficits and the crisis of greece, spain and portugal and other countries. the rapporteur, mr hoang ngoc, is saying that we should prolong those policies and that we should wait before reducing the deficits. mrs ulvskog from sweden proposes increased spending. the socialists have become a threat to prosperity, recovery and the new jobs that europe needs. i can assure you that, where socialists fail, we in the epp will stand up for the action needing to be taken – reduced deficits, restored confidence and the reforms for growth and new jobs. that is what europe will need, and we will stand there and take the tough decisions and take the responsibilities where others fail.
mr president, i would like to thank you. recent events have shown the importance of sound public finances. it is therefore strange, to say the least, that the rapporteur, mr liam hoang ngoc, wants to soften, and even delete, the strong language on the need to comply with the stability and growth pact. on the contrary, it is good and necessary for the eu to concentrate on controlling the galloping debt. otherwise, the future could be even more terrifying. i was a member of the swedish parliament in the 1990s. i was on the finance committee when our public finances collapsed. i'm not particularly proud of it, but it's the truth. for a while, we had a 500 percent interest rate! it was going up to 2,000 percent, and we were approaching the status of the banana republic. but even this 500 percent wasn't enough. our currency crashed and george soros won. a hard time was waiting for the swedish people, but we learned one thing, liam hoang ngoc we learned to keep order in the finances! the same is true in europe: order brings stability and growth.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today we are voting on a report on the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus. it's a very important subject. a more active political role for the eu is of the utmost importance in the current political situation in the region. as shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i have worked hard to emphasise the eu's role in the south caucasus and what we in the european union can do concretely to help the countries concerned and bring them closer to the eu, each at its own pace, on the basis of their own specific circumstances. the report proposes two important steps that the eu should take urgently to implement the strategy: accelerating the pace of visa liberalisation negotiations, and establishing a free trade area between the eu and the south caucasus. all the countries in the region - georgia, armenia and azerbaijan - are former members of the soviet union, and russia still has a lot more influence in the region than many people realize. the eu must therefore be more present in the region than it is today if security, stability and peace are to be maintained in the future. it is very important that the citizens of these countries have a greater european perspective and it is central for the eu to understand the importance of stability in the caucasus. i have also been keen to receive clear reports on the long-standing conflicts in the region and the constant danger of their escalating into armed conflict. i am therefore very pleased that in the text we clearly reiterate our unconditional support for the territorial integrity and inviolability of georgia's internationally recognised borders and strongly condemn the recognition by the russian federation of the independence of the georgian breakaway regions of south ossetia and abkhazia, in violation of international law. the report we are voting on today received broad political support in the committee, which was welcome. i would encourage everyone to vote for the amendments tabled by the epp together with the social democrats and the greens.
in writing. the report is number one in the ranking this year and cannot therefore be supported. but it contains both good and bad suggestions, and that is why i shall abstain.
in writing. - the report by mr barroso on the european union's relations with the mediterranean (2009/2215), a7-0133/2010. this is because we cannot support the significantly increased allocation of eu funds to projects under the union for the mediterranean in the new eu budget for 2014-2020. it is very important that we have fruitful cooperation with the mediterranean countries, based on the principles of equal treatment, solidarity, dialogue and respect for the asymmetries and specificities of each country. regional cooperation within the union for the mediterranean must not, however, become a substitute for european integration and membership of the european union, as some forces desire. it is also essential that the eu takes responsibility and maintains its credibility, and thus does not pledge money for various purposes without sustainable financing.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i agree with much of the description of human rights abuses in pakistan. i would like to draw particular attention to the situation of the ahmadiyya muslims and the persecution they are subjected to. it is a matter of outright persecution, cold-blooded murder, discrimination, harassment at all levels of society. this is still going on, despite the promises of improvement by both the previous and the current government. that hasn't happened yet, but the persecution continues. it is time for the international community and the eu to wake up and take action to stop the continuing human rights abuses in pakistan!
mr president, i would like to thank you. a special thanks goes to the rapporteur, mrs sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska. she has established excellent cooperation with the political groups and, in particular, with the committees. i think that's very important in this situation. we need broad agreement on what we are going to do when we have such an incredibly difficult economic situation for the member states. it is of course particularly necessary to reach agreement on those cases where we will be fighting to revise the budget ceiling, for more money. we must do so - despite the difficult situation - in some areas. i am thinking in particular of two areas. in category 1, the policy for growth and jobs, it will be absolutely necessary if we are to assert the role of parliament in economic recovery and, likewise, in category 4, the role of the eu in the world. but we really need to concentrate on the most central areas. however, we seem to have a number of points of disagreement with the rapporteur and we will be tabled amendments on a few important points. i will just mention three very briefly. the first concerns youth policy. we agree on the priority, but we think the rapporteur is focusing too much on mobility. the situation of young people, especially youth unemployment, is so much more. it is about education, it is about labour market policy and it is about social action. the second concerns the question of gaza. it should be obvious that the epp group too supports the demand that israel lift the blockade, as the council has done earlier today. some say that this is not a budgetary issue. i mean, that's wrong. this is largely budgetary, because the blockade is hampering eu reconstruction efforts and the necessary material is not being provided, for example. the third point i would like to mention is the aid. we must be clear that this must not interfere with aid to the poorest countries or with the millennium development goals, whether in the field of climate change, the so-called 'banana company measures' or cooperation with the industrialized countries. i therefore appeal to the rapporteur and the political groups to support these very reasonable amendments.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. let me first of all thank michael cashman for the pleasant fellowship he has given us in reflecting on these extremely urgent and important issues. i would also like to say that it has been interesting for me as a former swedish member of parliament to be here in the european parliament and to see that people are trying to find common ground. i suppose it was not expected that our groups would find complete agreement. now michael cashman says - and i agree with him completely - that more resources are needed. but i don't think it should always be about more taxes. i'd like to say this: let the entrepreneurs go free and give them a chance in the poor countries, so that jobs are created. i also do not think that the moratorium proposed by michael cashman is wise. however, i would very much like to underline what is said in paragraph 47, which strongly argues that we must deal with the discrimination against groups in the many poor countries. i think that this, and i am sure many others, is a question that we should dwell on for a very long time when we talk about the millennium development goals. they're talking about 0.7 percent. i would very much like to talk about 1 percent of gdp. i think that the rich countries have a responsibility to ensure that we at least meet that. then there's another question: i do not think it is particularly wise to take a decision to increase the countries' share to 0.7%, even if we wanted to, because i think that would be a blow in the wind. but these are pressing questions and they are, of course, the most pressing questions from a moral point of view that this house can deal with. the fact that people are dying of thirst and hunger should be the most unbearable thing for any member of the european parliament.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to pay a personal tribute to estonia. today europe and the euro are facing serious problems. it is in times of trouble that the chaff is separated from the wheat. we can see here a difference between those who really believe in europe and want to contribute to a stronger eu, like estonia, and those who anxiously sit on the sidelines and wait for the outcome, like my home country sweden, the home country of the president, the united kingdom, and denmark. let us assume for a moment that the mothers and fathers of the eu had stood by in the same way when it all began. where would europe be today? it is in times of crisis that the eu develops and shows its strength for a more united and stronger europe. the euro is the most visible symbol of a united europe. glory to estonia!
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. consumer power is based on consumers being informed. if we do not force companies to provide correct information, consumers will not be able to do so either, and the whole single market will collapse. we cannot centrally decide what information is important to a particular consumer. consumers have different needs and we must try to satisfy as many as possible. we risk running the affairs of industry if we do not want to warn consumers about high calorie, salt, fat and the like. it's no more strange to have a color-coded nutrition warning than it is to warn consumers who buy an energy-intensive car or an energy-intensive refrigerator. we cannot delay the origin marking by investigating it, we must do it here and now! animals and those who want to protect their welfare cannot wait to hear about animals being transported alive to slaughterhouses far away. we're not allowed to run the liquor business either. the alcohol producers are constantly demanding to be treated like regular food companies, but now that we're going to regulate food, they don't want to be a part of it anymore. it's not fair. many consumers are unaware that alcohol is calorie-intensive, that a glass of white wine, for example, contains twice as many calories as a similar amount of soda. when it comes to nutritional profiles, i don't agree with renate sommer. they inhibit the ability of companies to describe products as useful when they are not. it provides a framework and limits the possibilities of false advertising. i am in full agreement with the commission on this point. so a couple of little questions at the end. we said no to thrombin early. there are other similar products on the market and renate sommer and i have both tabled amendments to describe them correctly. i hope they get support. today we sell sausages on the market that contain large amounts of connective tissue and fat, but are still called meat. we have a chance to make that right now. as regards egg products and other animal products, we could label them under the system already in force for eggs, that is, a system where it is possible to see under what conditions the animals have lived. that would be progress.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my vision is that we will empower consumers by providing clear, simple and understandable information about food, without burdening small producers with more bureaucracy. that is why i am against all forms of misleading labelling and counterfeiting. i am against the traffic light because it scares people and does not respect the fact that we all have different health requirements and lifestyles. i am opposed to labelling for the same reason. i am in favour of labelling meat. the commission may put forward practical solutions which can be evaluated and then we can take a position on them. we have two options that are opposite to each other: either politicians at the top with chopsticks and dictating what we eat or we have more freedom of choice and the right to more information. i am in favour of a nutrition profile labelling system which is based on research and is flexible. the food industry must take responsibility and clean itself up and work against the phenomena that cause poor food. food is a health issue, and it's important to realize that. we must work together for better food.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are light measures that must be taken to create economic stability within the eu. one of the easiest measures, but at the same time important, is to improve the quality of economic statistics. in that area, it is quite possible to make significant improvements relatively quickly. i therefore welcome the positive signals sent out by both the commission and the council. i hope that we can quickly agree on effective measures to raise the quality of statistics to a higher level. i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the role and powers of eurostat. eurostat will continue to cooperate with the national producers of statistics, but the hierarchy and decision levels need to be clarified. eurostat must be able to demand accurate national data and to use both sanctions and specific inspections if the quality is not good enough. improving statistics requires more resources. it is important to recognise that higher quality requires greater investment in this respect. we need to establish a plan for eurostat. capacity needs to be increased and we need to make sure that the budget provides room for this capacity increase. i am concerned that statistics have not been a priority in the field in current policy discussions. i hope the increased bet comes.
in writing. − i support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight. however i want to make it clear that i oppose the ongoing liberalisation of railways in the european union, which is responsible for the fragmentation, lack of investment and ineffectiveness of rail freight today. this compromise with the council is an effort to improve the situation, therefore i vote for it. but it builds on the liberalisation that i strongly oppose. however this vote does not concern deregulation, which is already in the treaty.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we broadly agree with the priorities set out in the report. we believe, for example, that it is important to invest in young people, in research and innovation and in green technologies. we also believe it is important that the new eu strategy for growth and jobs, eu 2020, be given sufficient financial resources to be a success. we would like to stress, however, that we do not think there is a need for increased direct aid to agriculture. we also do not want to see any permanent market support from the eu for milk and milk products.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. we believe that this measure may be justified in some cases, for example in the case of child pornography offences, but the reference in the text in question to blocking in 'cybercrime' was too broad to support.
in writing. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial instruments were used effectively. it is a very worrying trend that anti-abortionists in europe are using aid programmes to impose their views. the availability of family planning is an important component in giving women in developing countries the chance to take control of their own lives and thereby lift themselves out of poverty.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the wake of the financial crisis, there are legitimate calls for greater transparency and better regulation of the financial market. i have no problem with that, but as always when new rules are to be introduced, they must be balanced. we are not increasing the growth potential of europe's economy by making rash proposals, even if they are for benevolent purposes. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr wolf klinz, for a good piece of work which responds to the very detailed rules and regulations. increasing legal certainty and removing unjustified stringent requirements to reduce the administrative burden on businesses by 25% by 2012. the compromise negotiated by wolf klinz and the others is of course also satisfactory to me and our group. the proposal reduces the administrative burden on smes without - and i think it is important to say this - worsening investor protection, this is also something that michel barnier was involved in. the discussion has centred on the thresholds to be applied to the publication of a prospectus, for example in the case of new issues. i think they are well balanced and provide opportunities for a better functioning of the internal market. the proposal means that smes will not have to submit a prospectus and will therefore be able to raise capital more easily. the threshold is raised from eur 2,5 million to eur 5 million. it's not that big a deal. the proposal also makes it easier for regional banks to issue bonds by raising the thresholds from eur 50 million to eur 75 million for non-equity securities such as debt securities and structured products. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr wolf klinz, like my colleague from the s&d group, for his excellent work. this report is an important step towards improving the conditions for millions of small businesses in europe.
mr president, current eu regulations on food contact materials still allow quite high levels of bisphenol a. as a result, there is a risk that it could migrate into food or, in wider consumer uses involving daily exposure, also move into the body. how will the results of the european food safety agency opinion on bisphenol a due at the end of may 2010 – i think it has been presented now – be taken into account for future actions on bisphenol a under reach? i am thinking about our babies, our bottles and so on.
the questioner. - mr president! - what is it? in the best of all worlds, we would not have had to have this debate tonight. we would have lived in a society that was equal. now we don't live in the best of worlds and that's why we have this debate. but it cannot be left to debate. concrete action is needed to advance women's rights and gender equality. a charter of women's rights, a charter that takes a holistic approach to all policy areas, is something that is very much needed. i think and believe that statements, with nice words about equality, are not enough. it is not enough to have individual, specific actions in different areas. no, we need a comprehensive work on gender equality issues the gender equality strategy, the report presented by ilda figueiredo but we also need a comprehensive charter of women's rights. in order to draw up such a charter, i believe we need to draw on the knowledge, skills and experience that exist also outside parliament. in women's organisations, in ngos, in civil society in general, there is knowledge, skills and experience that we should take into account when drawing up a comprehensive charter. the commission has the power to initiate and coordinate a process between the eu institutions, national parliaments, ngos and so on to draw up such a charter. i am convinced that with the commitment of viviane reding to gender equality, we have the opportunity to make such a charter together with the commission. i would also like to say that we often discuss, at least before each european parliament election, how to get more women to take part in the parliamentary elections and how to get more women to take part in political decision-making in general. i am saying that it is not enough for us to go out and encourage women to participate in the elections. no, women and our citizens in general are wiser than that. they look, of course, at what we have done to change their reality and what we have done in parliament to improve their living conditions and so on. that is why we will now use this mandate to show women in the eu and the world that there is somewhere where we are really making a difference to the reality in which most women live.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? in 150 years, the baltic sea has gone from being a pristine, clear and nutrient-poor arctic sea to a state of constant crisis. the problems of over-fertilization, algal blooms, toxic waste and endangered biodiversity are growing. the situation in the baltic sea is very serious. despite the successes of the 1990s and 2000s in reducing nitrogen and phosphorus, today most of the baltic sea is affected by over-fertilisation. the levels of environmental toxins and heavy metals are also high, despite successful reductions in emissions of lead, mercury and ddt, for example. i don't know if any of you have seen the algae bloom in this vast, previously healthy inland sea. when you take a boat out to the magnificent archipelago in summer, you are met by a half-inch-thick green smelly covering of algae. if dogs drink the water, they die. and if children bathe in it, they vomit and get stomach diseases. such is the situation in many places around the baltic sea today. to ensure growth and a vibrant rural future, it is absolutely essential that we increase our knowledge of the impact on the baltic sea. the baltic sea ecosystem is complex and cannot be fully exploited without the cooperation of scientists across national borders throughout the entire catchment area down to the inland sea. much of this research is already under way today, but often without sufficient coordination. to change this, there are proposals on the table today, which are abbreviated as bonus. this work will be a joint research programme between the baltic sea states, including indeed scientists from russia, to meet the environmental challenges in this area. bonus is creating a strategic plan with a common focus for more than 500 researchers from the eight neighbouring member states. the eu and the baltic sea countries will then jointly invest close to sek 1 billion in environmental research. around the baltic sea, 85 million people live in countries whose economies depend on the sea in various ways. at the same time, it is our societies that contribute to the problems when emissions and waste leak into the water. a better overall picture of research is needed if the baltic sea is to be saved. research in this area is fragmented and overly dependent on the limited research funding available at local, regional and national level. bonus is instead building on the experience of the eu's framework programme for research and technological development. through bonus, the national research programmes and activities of the participating states will for the first time be integrated into a common strategic programme with a clear focus. i thank everyone involved - my colleagues, the spanish presidency and the research commissioner - for making this happen. this type of coordinated environmental research is part of the process of creating a sustainable, dynamic and resource-efficient europe. the baltic sea is very much alive in the culture of all eight of our countries around this inland sea, in literature, music and art. we want to leave it for our grandchildren. bonus will form part of the platform for this future venture.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? bonus is actually a pilot project under article 185 and i can assure everyone who will be working on the bonus programme and everyone who will be reading or affected by this that it is not easy. it is not easy to pool research funds from the european union and from different member states, it is a great challenge. it's not easy to coordinate different academic research cultures and traditions -- 16 large research groups, 500 scientists, eight countries and the whole of the rest of the eu standing around to see if this is really going to work, plus everyone to audit and check that we're doing the right things and are effective. this will require a lot of the scientists involved. it will take a lot from the member states and their governments and i can assure you that it will take tough political decisions and tough political leadership, but we have to do this. our research programmes must be carefully evaluated and we must take on this great responsibility, because we must solve the problems of the baltic sea together. but we also need to find a model that allows us to move forward in other parts of europe. it is a question of the great rivers, it is a question of the mediterranean and it is a question of how we manage common resources from taxpayers in eu programmes and in national programmes. the baltic sea is part of our common history and culture from the end of the ice age, past the vikings, past medieval trade, past the sea of freedom during the cold war and now a sea that our parents and children love and that it is our responsibility to manage. in view of these difficulties and the great challenges, i would therefore like to thank all those involved once again. the work is not finished with the decisions we take here and the documents we sign, but it is now the work begins.
mr president, today we will be voting on two historic resolutions in this chamber, one dealing with the necessity of strengthened economic governance and a second one which is needed to make the eu 2020 resolution more ambitious: a strategy for sustainable growth and jobs. this is the first time the european parliament has come together in a broad coalition to support ambitious proposals as put forward in the resolutions. the large majority is clear proof of the urgency of the situation and of the leadership that can be shown in this parliament. firstly, the crisis has shown that the tightening of the rules is needed more than ever for joint economic governance of the union. the blueprint for economic governance should be drawn up by the commission and directed and conducted by the same institution, and the resolutions provide full support for the proposals from olli rehn. but i must ask you, mr barroso, to look further into the budgetary proposals, because we need them to support the eu 2020 resolutions and the growth and stability strategy, and in their current form, they do not. secondly, we believe that the current crisis in the growth and stability pact has shown that the growth and stability pact does not work appropriately and needs strengthening, but this has to be combined with sustainable economic growth. when we look into the eu 2020 strategy we need proposals on the flagships. only neelie kroes has provided, in the digital agenda, the background that we need. finally, on the council, you need to cooperate and come forward with proposals and put the citizens first and it is not ugly or insulting to ask about your neighbour’s economy when the economy affects 500 million people and taxpayers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. martin schulz said that the agenda of the meetings we are about to have is really about morality and solidarity. i couldn't agree more. the question is: can we trust that those who sit around these tables actually stand for morality and solidarity? i have a great doubt. we must not forget how this crisis was triggered and how it arose. it is the market fundamentalists who are in the right-wing parties that govern in many of our member states and who are strong in this parliament, in the commission and in the council of ministers who have stood for the idea that we should have an unregulated market. they have worshipped it and they have defended it. they are also the ones who have been the least successful in living up to the eu's growth and stability pact. they have huge deficits and have neglected to keep order in the economy. almost all eu member states have done so. the biggest ones have been the worst, and that's where the bourgeois governments are. who are the ones paying the price now? there are wage earners, there are pensioners and there are young people who are not getting jobs. i am not sure that the outcome of these meetings, despite all the fine words, will lead to a view of savings which means that we should not immediately put ourselves in a position where the recovery is broken, but that we should be wise, long-term and solidarity-oriented, and that we should also invest in things which produce sustainable growth. i will carefully examine whether those beautiful words actually become reality.
mr president, actually the epp amendment and original texts change some things, but neither the epp amendment nor the original text touch upon the issue of trans fats. therefore, that corresponding part of 144 should still be voted, even if 295 is adopted, because trans fats are an important issue for many people here.
mr president, this concerns article 31(3). the ppe group wants to delete mandatory gdas. we agree with the ppe group and would like to vote in favour. therefore the authors of amendment 314 have decided to change it, so it relates to article 31(3a) (new) and therefore would not fall if amendment 297 were adopted.
in writing. - we decided to vote in favour of the report because the positive outweighed the negative. unfortunately, the possibility of national regulations was removed, but we believe that this will be reintroduced in negotiations with the member states. alcohol was excluded from the proposal and we lost the vote on the introduction of a traffic light labelling system, i.e. foodstuffs are labelled with red, orange and green according to the amount of different nutrients they contain. however, we got through a series of positive changes; labelling of nanomaterials in food became mandatory, and so also origin labelling of all meat, fish, dairy products, vegetables and fruit, as well as trans fats, and if the product contains glutamate, the text 'contains appetite-stimulating ingredients' must be indicated in the declaration of content. another victory is that energy, fat, saturated fat, sugar, salt and sweeteners must be listed on the front of the product. the meat scare, which parliament stopped earlier this spring, has received a lot of attention. other products on the market are used to assemble parts of meat to give the impression that it is made from a single part, such as ham sandwiches. these products must now be labelled 'comes from composite meat parts'. the improvements will allow consumers to make more informed choices, for example, if they wish to opt for healthier alternatives or to opt out of products that have been shipped far away.
mr president, i represented the committee on budgets in the parliament delegation to gaza the week before the events surrounding the ships to gaza, and i have been there before. hopefully this tragic event will at least unite us behind some conclusions and behind a renewed effort for peace. if the blockade continues, there is no doubt that it will lead to humanitarian disaster. the blockade stops reconstruction of homes and schools, and is therefore also a direct problem for aid via the eu budget and thus a direct responsibility for the european parliament. reconstruction projects have been at a standstill for years because of a shortage of material. the european union has to take a lead and put pressure on israel to change its policies. the present situation is not only a problem for the innocent population of gaza – most of them children and young people – it also fuels extremism and the black economy. if necessary, i think that the european union itself should take the responsibility for organising peaceful transport to gaza.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank doris pack for a very balanced and very objective report, but i would also like to thank štefan füle for the enormous interest and the knowledge he shows in his work with this interesting but very complicated part of our europe. you are absolutely right, commissioner, when you say that the territorial integrity of bosnia cannot and must not be called into question. if i had to pick one thing that i would like to emphasize today, it would be visa liberalization. i really hope that we will be able to complete the visa liberalisation process before the october elections. if we do not have time to send this signal, we must send a clear signal from the commission that we will complete this process in the very near future. otherwise, unfortunately, we are jeopardising both the outcome of the elections and the interest of the people in participating in the elections in bosnia.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our task is to build together a future europe based on common values, mutual trust and respect for the diversity that is our common strength. these values cannot be legislated, decided or commanded, but can only be built in mutual encounters between people. it is of the utmost importance that the men and women who work in the justice systems of our member states have opportunities to meet, discuss and learn from each other. because in these meetings, understanding and respect for our differences grow and lessons can be learned that can strengthen our respective traditions. we are committed to strengthening learning and dialogue between europeans, and we do this by creating spaces for development and growth among people who have dedicated their lives to the justice systems of our member states. i, like others, stress the need for strong action and expect a lot from the commission in highlighting this urgent area for the common good of all of us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, if we can imagine a horse having two or three explosive spears stuck in its stomach and being made to pull a butcher’s truck through the streets of london while it pours blood into the gutter we shall have an idea of the method of killing. ‘the gunners themselves admit that if whales could scream the industry would stop, for nobody would be able to stand it.’ these are the words of dr harry lillie, a ship’s physician on an antarctic whaling trip in the 1940s. recent studies show that it still takes on average between two minutes and over one hour for a harpooned whale to die. in 1982 the world agreed on an international moratorium on the commercial whale hunt because stocks were acutely depleted, and ever since three countries have persisted in continuing the hunt – japan, iceland and norway. next week the international whaling commission will meet in agadir and the eu has to take a decision on the chair’s proposal. i must stress that i am appalled that my own home country, sweden, has been pushing for this compromise, and i want to bring to your attention the fatal weaknesses of any of the compromises that have been discussed. any quotas that can be set by the scientific committee must be set in line with a ‘tuning level’. this tuning level is 0.72 and it means that we accept that the stock should be at 72% of its virgin state. it is very important to keep this in mind should we agree to any compromise, and not to go below that tuning level. no hunting should be allowed in the southern ocean whale sanctuary. threatened species are included in this compromise. we should not break the principles of protecting threatened species in the un’s international year of biodiversity.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you very much for the report on aquaculture. we are very pleased that guido milana has taken so many problems seriously in this report, especially those relating to animal health, local environmental problems and the need for an integrated maritime policy, and in particular that the report recognises the problem of farmed fish eating fish requiring wild fish to be farmed and that it states that the eu should give priority to the farming of herbivorous fish. what we are a little sceptical about in the report is the proposal to introduce an eu label, an ecolabel for fish. we believe that neither individual states nor the eu should manage eco-labelling, but that the eu should have such good environmental laws that origin labelling should be sufficient as a guarantee of a high environmental and animal standard. other eco-labelling may be voluntary or private and should drive development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the report by mr raül romeva on the improvement of the ability to determine the origin of bluefin tuna and to prevent illegal fishing. i would like to remind you of the cost of monitoring the mediterranean sea for the bluefin tuna operation alone: 5 million euros this year. there are 24 ring-node operators fishing bluefin tuna. 90% of the catch is exported to japan. the record for a single fish at the tokyo fish auction this year was over 100,000 euros. i would like to put the question to the european commissioner. given that the three eu institutions have agreed to support the listing of bluefin tuna in annex i, meaning that the 27 member states agree that this wild fish should be protected, and that there is an economic crisis in which every public euro should be spent responsibly, should the eu not urgently stop fishing and exporting this public resource until it has recovered?
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be involved in the process of reforming the eu's institutions. we believe it is important that the eu speaks with one voice and makes demands on israel/palestine. we swedish social democrats, however, believe that the resolution should have been more forceful, for example, stating that the eu will freeze the planned upgrading of relations between the eu and israel as long as israel does not fulfil its obligations under both the association agreement and international law and does not implement a real change on the ground in respect of human rights, especially in the occupied territories, and international law.
in writing. - it is most regrettable that people lost their lives. every human life that is extinguished is an unspeakable loss. the resolution on which we had to take a position is not only an expression of the european parliament's condolences, but above all a political statement. and as such, it is unbalanced. the statement does not take into account that hamas is a terrorist organization whose priority is to destroy the state of israel. hamas is not mentioned in the text, which seems somewhat strange, since hamas is a party to the conflict. the resolution calls for action by israel but ignores the fact that hamas also has the opportunity to take initiatives to reach a consensus or a peaceful solution. it may also seem remarkable to first strongly condemn the attack on the 'ship to gaza' and then call for an investigation into it. the judgment thus anticipates the conclusions of the requested investigation. the 'immediate demand' to lift the blockade of gaza is unanswered, but there are well-known reasons why israel has imposed the blockade.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today, as many as 14,000 barrels of oil a day are being spilled into the gulf of mexico. now the oil is spreading along the shores of the united states. it's approaching the shores of mexico. in northern europe there are people who are concerned today that the so-called loop off the coast of florida will carry oil along the gulf stream to our part of the world as well. that's what it looks like. we are all incredibly vulnerable, and no one lives on an island in this world. it's all connected. that is why it is so important that we do not lose sight of the question of the transition to renewable energy, to a different kind of society, that is to say, the one we talk about so often here and sometimes manage to get broad majorities for when we have to decide on resolutions. at the same time, far too little is being done. we must not lose sight of this because of the economic crisis. we're not going to solve the economic crisis unless we also solve the issues that are related to our environmental vulnerability. the vulnerability is also very clear in the way financial markets operate. they're the ones who rule. they're the ones who react. this has been the case for decades, when so many of those in the political groups here have thought that it has been perfectly fine, and that it is good that the market has so much power. we are finally starting to make decisions that will bring about regulation of the financial markets. this is of tremendous importance! we see the consequences of this in many of the eu's member countries, where free, unregulated market forces, which so many people worshipped until very recently, are causing enormous problems. the vulnerability becomes clear again in terms of how this is dealt with before we have the financial market regulations in place, with draconian cuts in public finances, which means that even the recovery from the economic crisis is at risk. the crisis could turn into a deep recession. i think it is extremely worrying that in some of our member states, the way in which they are dealt with is not only creating social conflict and excluding people, but actually risking harm to those they are trying to save. it was very interesting to listen to herman van rompuy. a lot of what was said was good, but there's a lot of architecture and very little human. social europe is also part of the struggle to do something about the financial market and the fight for the environment. people are getting hurt. mass unemployment continues to grow. we must devote all our energy to remedying this.
mr president, i think we can all welcome the conclusions and goals set by the european council. i have three points that i would like to comment on. the first one is about the euro. i think if we enforce what has been set up with ‘foreseeable and automatic sanctions’ for those who are not following the rules, then we will have a much stronger framework and maybe we will see the rebirth of the euro in a much stronger condition than we have ever had before. that will be a contribution to the future of european economy. that also implies that we need to do a lot regarding growth. i welcome the clear goals set out here, but i would like to remind us all that hard work and difficult choices have to be made. they are not made by just setting the goals. we have learned that from the lisbon process. we need to be able to make courageous decisions and open up the market for more trade, more investments and more innovations. that is what needs to be done. otherwise we have only bought ourselves some time, before all the problems come back again. finally, we are now entering a phase of global economy which will be characterised by the reduction of deficits. it will be so in the us, and it will be so in europe. we all know the risks associated with the contraction of economic development. we need to ensure that the economy can be stimulated in parallel. in that sense, i think reference to the doha round in the conclusions should be strengthened; and i think it should be strengthened in a way to make it consistent. i cannot understand a financial transaction tax which will hinder trade and liquidity and which will do more damage to poor countries and countries with big deficits. we need to support and stimulate trade, and that way we can get the injection needed to make the world a better place.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our media is currently full of all the cuts and savings that must be made to enable countries to cope with the debts that have been imposed on the peoples. it is understandable that much is written about it, but there are those who have nothing to cut back on, because they have no resources at all. many of these fellow humans live in africa. now, the cameras will soon be turned off from the world cup in south africa. i hope that we can then put new headlights on the poor countries of sub-saharan africa. we must do something, because it is a shame that people are dying of hunger and thirst, and have nothing to live on. i think we must then dare to tear down the walls between private enterprise and activity and the state and let the entrepreneurs in in a different way from what we have done so far in aid.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i support a treaty that provides specific information about an individual who actively and knowingly supports terrorism, and who gets his rights defended in court. i would like to thank alexander alvaro and cecilia malmström for at least trying. we said no bulk data and we'll have bulk data for at least three years. we said that the rule of law requires a court to defend our human rights and we get a europol to defend that the agreement is in accordance with the agreement, not human rights. we also have a definition of terrorism which is in line with the definition in the united states, namely a rubber clause which is open to aid organisations which are not acting in loyalty to the interests of the united states in foreign policy. no, unfortunately, the human rights protections in this treaty are as naked as the famous emperor.
in writing. - i have abstained from voting on the report. there are certain values which i fully share, such as the writings on increasing women's participation in the labour market. i have my doubts, however, about the fixation of competitiveness which is the hallmark of the document. the own-initiative report calls for an increase of more than 25% in the objective 2 area in order to increase competitiveness. this shall be done within the regional policy budgetary framework. there is no proper impact assessment. an overall assessment of the 450 programmes under the cohesion fund, the european social fund and the latest 2007 globalisation fund is needed to assess how these forms of support work from a social and gender perspective. right now, they're overlapping, leading to confusion. i also disagree with the report that it is the eu's regional policy that is crucial to european recovery. instead, it is the dysfunctional criteria of the stability pact that oblige countries to introduce wage, pension and social security cuts, which means that recovery takes much longer regardless of eu contributions.
in writing. the report aims to influence a forthcoming green paper on a common transport policy. i voted against because the report calls for total liberalisation of transport policy. the countries will be forced to give up large parts of their tax and social policies, as well as areas such as education and training, which are matters for the member states.
in writing. - i voted against the report which advocates atypical jobs, albeit under better conditions than what the report calls very atypical jobs, which are totally unregulated and often settled by a handshake between the employer and the employee. compared with the commission's green paper on a modern labour law, improvements have been made in the process. the report also highlights concern about the impact of anti-union judgments on the labour market in europe. this is important. in large countries such as germany and the uk, for example, one in four jobs is now in the low-wage sector. unemployment and social dumping in the eu's single market have put trade unions and the labour movement on the defensive. i would like to say that the european union should not interfere in employment matters, but that this is a matter that must be dealt with at national level. in my country, the autonomous parties negotiate collective agreements to deal with these issues. the starting point must be the right to fulltime as a norm, but with the possibility of part-time.
in writing. - we have chosen to support the report by josé manuel fernandez to highlight the importance of environmentally friendly management of bio-waste in europe in mitigating climate change and combating environmental degradation. however, we would like to stress that this should be done through the proper implementation and enforcement of existing legislation and not through increased regulatory burden.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. bonuses and compensation schemes are an area where we have heard a lot of rhetoric over the last year. however, few concrete measures have been taken. it is therefore positive that we are now establishing a regulatory framework which is both clear and practical. this framework is likely to reduce short-term and excessive risk-taking in the financial sector. this will reduce the level of risk and increase stability. the financial industry should have long ago removed the social hazards of bonus schemes, but since this has not happened, all that remains is legislation. it's too risky for society at large to accept the status quo. the taxpayers have already had far too high a cost to cover losses in banks that have taken far too much risk. it is now crucial that the directive is implemented well in the member states and that the regulatory framework is used effectively and will change the existing bonus culture.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what i have on my table is not the same thing my parents had on their table when they were little. what my parents had on their dinner table is not the same thing that my grandparents had on their table when they were young. we should be happy about this, partly because the supply has increased, but above all because it is a prerequisite for feeding an entire planet. what we're voting on here tomorrow is something as strange as what my children and my grandchildren are going to have on their dinner table. then it's important to remember that we shouldn't prohibit or hinder the new. we'll make sure it's safe. to do so, i would like to recall three fundamental principles which have guided me, and which i hope will guide my colleagues. firstly, that legislation must take account of science. what we decide on should be based on relevant research, on objective and well-conducted science. it should not be a matter of personal taste, religious conviction or special interests. to meet the challenges of the future, we must welcome innovation and science, not prevent or hinder them. secondly, it is important to take a scientific approach to the safety of novel foods. consumers will turn their backs on the new if they cannot be sure that what we are offering is actually safe. the citizens of europe have a right to demand this. thirdly and lastly, food safety must never be used as a pretext for new trade barriers and protectionism. it is in direct conflict with innovation and development. i therefore want to see innovation and the development of new but above all safe products. we're not gonna make it difficult or impede the new. we'll make sure it's safe.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking holger krahmer for pushing for ambitious legislation. i would also like to thank all those who have supported and proposed this directive, because the work on it has been important. the directive covers more than 50 000 industrial plants, i.e. plants which employ many people and at the same time cause a large proportion of air pollution, thus affecting the environment and health. the proposal we are voting on tomorrow is far from perfect, but it is nevertheless a clear step forward compared to the current legislation and therefore worth voting for. the main problem is that we are extending temporary exemptions for large combustion plants, even though they account for 90% of industrial emissions of sulphur and nitrogen dioxide. on this point we simply did not consult the conservative parties in the council and in the european parliament, which i regret. the positive aspect of the proposal we are voting on tomorrow is that it will be more stringent and clearer as to when derogations can be granted in the future. this is precisely what the socialist group has made its top priority, namely to bring order and stronger regulations, which means that the number of exceptions can de facto be reduced. i'm glad we made it. at the same time, best available techniques and reference documents are given a more central role, and industry is given great flexibility to make the necessary investments. in the meantime, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation. at the same time, steps are being taken towards a fairer level playing field, as changes drive for better implementation of emission limits. last but not least, more and safer jobs will be created as our part of the world faces competition from countries which are now investing heavily in precisely this type of transformation. holger krahmer, we must not end up in the east german situation, which means we are lagging behind.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank the european parliament and, in particular, both rapporteurs, mrs caroline lucas and mrs satu hassi, and the shadows for their engagement with the council and commission, which has resulted in the compromise text we have before us. forests are of vital importance in maintaining biodiversity and in global climate and water cycles. nowhere are the three pillars of sustainable development clearer than in relation to forests. in addition to their environmental value, the economic and social value of forests is immense, as i know well from my own country in which forests cover almost 60% of our territory. in many developing countries, forests provide not only jobs but also medicines, food and shelter that are critical for the subsistence of millions of rural people. your vote should pave the way for a second-reading agreement that will send a clear signal to the world: the eu will not accept illegally harvested timber. the challenge remains as to how we detect illegally harvested timber. by itself, the regulation is not enough to tackle illegal logging as it only covers timber on the eu market. the eu will continue to engage with countries wishing to strengthen forest governance, in particular through flegt voluntary partnership agreements. i am glad that the text before us recognises the efforts of countries entering into such agreements with the european union. to those who say that this proposal is a burden to european forest owners, i would say that legitimate operators should not face an undue burden – the text has considerable flexibility. the proposal in front of you deserves your support. it certainly has mine.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr satu hassi and the other shadow rapporteurs. we were far from agreed when we started this work, and i still think we differ on certain points. i must say, however, that the cooperation has been good. i would also like to thank the spanish presidency. i have had three things in mind in my work on this question. first of all, wood is a wonderful, renewable material that we use too little, not too much. the legislation we are now adopting must not create any more problems or red tape for those who use and trade in wood. we must not put higher demands on wood than we do on oil, for example. if this legislation leads to people choosing to produce things in plastic instead of wood, then the environment will be the big loser. secondly, the legislation must be feasible. many of the proposals we have seen on our journey, and which we have cleared away, have simply been unworkable. the legislation should not cover recycled materials and should not cover overly complex products or regulate traders too tightly down the product chain. it is not possible to require that a table containing a particle board be marked with the origin of the individual fibres, or to require a bookseller to guarantee the rights of workers in connection with the felling of the trees from which the fibres in the books are obtained. the third point i have had in mind is that legislation must not become an excuse for new protectionism. export of wood and wood products was an important reason for sweden's wealth. we must not prevent other countries which are poor today from exporting and trading. that is why we must not impose such high demands on what we import that we are effectively excluding developing countries. after several years of work on this issue, i have to say that the compromise we have today is as far as we can go. i have had many of my objections heard, for which i am very grateful. i think that the proposal we are voting on tomorrow is much, much better than the one i actually voted against myself in may last year. i think we've come a long, long way. in conclusion, i would just like to remind my colleagues of one thing, namely that when we talk about illegal trade in timber products and timber, we must remember the main causes and continue to fight them: unclear property rights, corruption and poverty. this must not be an excuse to stop the important work of fighting corruption, because that is the main problem.
madam president, i voted to ask the commission to present a proposal on animal cloning which bans food derived from cloned animals from the european market. consumers in the european union do not want it and they care for animal welfare. the commission has said that there is no need for cloning to ensure food security in europe. there is knowledge that it is bad for animals. cloning is time-consuming and costly. at the same time, it is very important to continue research and to encourage the commission and efsa to come up with innovation and develop technology on all the other aspects of cloning. another important argument is that the technology tests at the moment cannot show the difference between cloned and non-cloned meat, and we cannot therefore inform the consumer and ensure the free choice to which they have the right.
in writing. - illegal logging is a major problem that must be tackled. we therefore fully support the aim of this report, even though it contains clear protectionist tendencies with which we do not agree. far-reaching regulations create trade barriers that affect developing countries and make it harder for them to use their timber industry to lift themselves out of poverty. the problem of illegal logging must be taken very seriously. since the report has improved considerably during the negotiations with the council, including the trade-distorting aspects, we have therefore chosen to support the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. - in the vote on wednesday on the so-called timber regulation, i voted against. the objective of the regulation, namely to minimise the risk of illegally harvested timber being placed on the eu market, was good from the outset. however, during the negotiations the proposal has developed in such a way that it would involve excessive intervention on the market, which is not proportionate to the extent to which it could limit illegal harvesting. that is why i voted against the motion.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the resolution on albania is a rather cheap pill, but i am sure it is correct. it is quite clear that albania needs a broad and thorough moral uplift. of course, we must not forget the history of albania. over 40 years ago, i visited albania on a visit to the united states. that's when enver hoxha dictated to his people. it was a terrible dictatorship: terror, oppression and corruption, no judiciary, no free press, no freedom of speech at all. then, 40 years ago, swedish students - and not just swedish students and intellectuals - considered albania a model country. that was when albania had written atheism into its constitution! i don't think it's been easy for sali berisha to build this country. we have to admit that at some point. what is needed, in my view, in a country that has been torn down in terms of values and torn apart in terms of values, is an anchorage in solid values. i sincerely hope that the commission will make a real effort to give albania a solid foundation of values. i believe that only then will we be able to tackle the terrible problems of human trafficking and human slavery. there is no greater disgrace for a country than this. we can talk all we want about economic growth and so on, but as long as people are sold and treated as commodities, there is a disgrace which the commission must do its utmost to eradicate.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. george lyon has made a few, perhaps brief, but nevertheless extremely important steps towards changing agricultural policy. we need the common european agricultural policy. let us give up all thoughts of renationalization. let us also recognize that we are living in a new age of very difficult questions that we are obliged to solve. it's about food for nine billion people, of course. at the same time, we also face the enormous challenges of climate and of making natural cycles work. let us not see agriculture as an environmental scourge and an environmental problem. agriculture and forestry contain the fundamental solutions to the gigantic problems.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the report by alain cadec on eu imports of fish. europe's own catches have fallen at an alarming rate - by 26% since 1997 alone. over 60% of all fish consumed in europe today is imported. it shouldn't have to be like this. if we managed our own fisheries resources at least to maximum sustainable yield (msy), european catches could double, while maintaining viable and strong stocks. with that objective in mind, we must now ensure that we do not transfer our problems of overfishing to other countries. the cadec report mentions several important instruments that the eu can use. the first is the iuu regulation. all fish entering the eu market must have approved paperwork indicating where, when and by whom the fish was caught. it's a first step, but it doesn't go all the way. in many parts of the world, illegal fishing is a problem that poor countries do not have sufficient resources to deal with. in countries where corruption is high, it is not difficult to obtain the right papers for a fish exporter. the eu, as the world's largest fish importer, must therefore take its responsibility with concrete and technical financial support and provide the resources needed to enable compliance and control in developing countries. the second instrument is already in place at the un. we have good international agreements, but we must also implement them. in 2006, the eu raised the issue of an agreement implementing, inter alia, the fao code of conduct for responsible fisheries at the un. we have to keep going.
in writing. the socialist group, together with the spanish presidency, has succeeded in negotiating improvements to the agreement on the exchange of banking data with the united states. the amount of bank data transferred is limited (transfer of data for intra-eu transactions will not take place) and the transfers will be reviewed and approved in real time by eu-designated staff. although some progress has been made in the negotiations, the fundamental problem of so-called bulk transfers of banking data remains. this means that data of innocent citizens will continue to be transferred to the us authorities, which we swedish social democrats cannot accept. we also see serious shortcomings, both legal and practical, in allowing europol to be the authority to monitor transfers. for these reasons, we have decided not to vote in favour of the agreement with the united states on the transfer of banking data.
in writing. − while i have voted in favour of this report, it is my firm view that the people of albania should decide whether or not they wish to join the eu.
in writing. - i voted against the own-initiative report on the eu import regime for fishery and aquaculture products. i fully support the need to change and renew the eu fisheries and aquaculture sector. the report, however, assumes that the problems can be partly remedied by protection against competition from the outside world. european fisheries cannot survive in the long term on protectionism and subsidies. the problems facing the eu's fisheries and aquaculture sector should be addressed in the context of the forthcoming review of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking pablo zalba bidegain, because i know that he has really worked hard on this and i think he has achieved a very good result. tomorrow's vote on the safeguard clauses of the free trade agreement with south korea is indeed historic. i think so for two reasons. firstly, it means that we are now beginning to consider the most comprehensive free trade agreement that the eu has ever concluded. it's the most comprehensive deal, and the one that's going to generate the biggest profits, that we've ever seen. this is not surprising, because south korea is one of our most important trading partners, the 11th largest economy in the world and one of the first oecd countries with which the eu has concluded a free trade agreement. it is also the first agreement where we use 'global europe', where we take as a starting point the competitiveness of europe, in what is economically important and not just what is politically important. you can see we have ambition. we are doing more in the agricultural sector here, for example, in terms of free trade, than we have ever done before. it opens up a lot of possibilities for our industry. it is also opening up the industries of our south korean friends, of course, but that is what free trade is all about. it's hard, it's been hard, and it's going to be hard, but what's important is often very hard. that's the whole point. secondly, this is the first case in which the european parliament is involved and is involved in the decision-making process. it has meant that we have had to show that we can take responsibility, and i think we have. we must show that we can add something, that we can strengthen the role of the eu rather than just brake it. of course, not all our demands will be met, but the fact that we have put them forward will force the commission to pay more attention to social conditions and non-tariff barriers to trade, for example. i have a point of view which i would like to emphasize in particular because i do not agree with all the things we voted on in committee. this is the question of regional protection measures. i doubt that after the lisbon treaty and i would think it would be better if we rather introduced safeguard measures throughout the eu. with a single market and free movement there are great possibilities for circumventing this type of regional protection measures, and i do not think anyone here wants to touch and question either free movement or the single market. but overall, tomorrow's vote is an important signal that we are entering a new era in trade policy, and that is a good thing.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i sometimes think we need to remind ourselves of what europe's strength is - the fundamental strength for europe's development. what's the matter? well, it's been opening up markets, creating opportunities for more free trade. it is not good in europe as it is today, but it is much better than it could have been. is it not also true that with global free trade we are going to overcome poverty and create freedom in the world in the same way? i must therefore say that i am sometimes a little concerned when i listen to some of my colleagues who are obviously trying to create new obstacles and make it more difficult for free trade to develop. i think it's going the wrong way. i just want to say that and express my support for commissioner de gucht. it is free trade that creates freedom and keeps people out of poverty. that is the way the european parliament should go.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my first reply to josé bové is that i have the capacity to say no if any lobbyist were to influence me, but i have not yet seen one. if we want a living countryside, if we want to manage the food supply in europe, if we want to manage our cultural heritage, animal welfare, our demands on food and on farmers, farmers must be paid better for their products. there is no doubt that the great problem of present and future agricultural policy is the low payment farmers receive for their products. i believe that it is our social responsibility to pay for the rest of the collective goods produced by the farmers through our tax bills, our cultural heritage and so on. we need more openness and transparency - we agree on that - and we need to tighten up the competitive situation in the large industries. first, the food processing industry, which is ahead of farmers and is the world's largest corporation, completely globalized most of them, and the big food chains. we need to look at that competition and get some transparency.
in writing. the eu-south korea free trade agreement is a very important agreement for the eu. as liberals we are very much in favour of free trade agreements and we believe in their positive effects on the european economy and trade. we are therefore very sceptical about the regional safeguard clauses which the european parliament wants to add to the agreement as a way of restricting free trade. we want to emphasise the importance of free trade for the development of the eu. in order for the eu to become a competitive player in global trade, the european parliament should act to facilitate and create opportunities for trade with the rest of the world through free trade agreements without restrictions.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the globalisation adjustment fund supports individual employees who have been made redundant as a result of the effects of globalisation and provides financial support for retraining and further training to help them re-enter the labour market. the report contains concrete proposals to halve the time needed to receive funds from the fund, both at national and european level. it is also proposed that the social partners be involved both in the application process and in the implementation of the actions financed. the report also proposes to extend the derogation to workers who have been made redundant as a result of the financial crisis. we see this as a very important instrument to combat the effects of the financial crisis and to prevent workers from being permanently excluded from the labour market. paragraph 16 of the report also suggests that the commission should examine the possibility of creating a permanent globalisation fund. we would stress, however, that the letter does not constitute a final position on the matter, but merely suggests that the commission should investigate and evaluate the usefulness of a permanent fund. we also want to emphasize that labour market policy is a responsibility of the member states. the globalisation adjustment fund should therefore never be a substitute for action at national level but should be seen as complementary to the efforts undertaken in the member states.
in writing. - we voted to make judicial procedures easier for europe's increasingly mobile citizens. this does not mean that we fully and unreservedly support the reforms which may eventually result from the zwiefka report. for example, we remain critical of the ambitions to introduce class actions and we also want to stress that no changes to civil law cooperation under discussion must be of a nature to affect the freedom of the press in sweden.
in writing. - yesterday, 07/09/2010, we voted against the report on the role of women in an ageing society (2009/2205 ((ini))), a7-0237/2010. this is mainly because we do not support the proposal for a system whereby all citizens of the eu are entitled to a basic income and the request in the report for measures to favour women. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should encourage member states to introduce new types of leave which allow paid leave in connection with caring responsibilities other than parental leave. we want to safeguard the principle of subsidiarity here. we would like to stress, however, that there are parts of the report with which we are in sympathy.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? it is no exaggeration to say that the lisbon strategy failed. we must learn from our mistakes and not repeat them in the new strategy. some of the major mistakes in the strategy were not prioritising equal working life, not giving women the opportunity and conditions to participate fully in the labour market and not prioritising the fight against the gender pay gap. we must increase women's participation in the labour market and thereby also increase men's participation in childcare and so on. therefore, support the improvements proposed by the gender equality committee to this strategy. in addition, remove any reference to the need for a rebate on public sector wages. it is in the public sector that many of our low-paid women already exist today. don't increase the pay gap any further.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to highlight some aspects which are particularly important to emphasize when the guidelines are being drawn up. first, more people need to be employed if the economy is to develop positively. there is a tendency to ignore the magnitude of the problems with the skyrocketing unemployment that we actually have. only if we actively work to reduce unemployment can we start growth and correct the fiscal imbalances. secondly, investment in employment has a positive effect on national budgets. lower unemployment brings both tax revenues and reduced social spending. it is therefore worthwhile to invest in employment policies. thirdly, employment policy can only work if it is well anchored among the social partners and if there is room for effective cooperation. we must also move from words to deeds.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let this late hour remind us that freedom of speech was born in europe once. in my country, sweden, we have protected it since 1766, when it became swedish law, and it is now constitutionally protected. yet, this has not prevented such heinous things as assassination attempts, firebombings, and threats against journalists and writers. this is not unique to sweden, just the same violence occurs elsewhere in europe. if we want europe to continue to be a model for freedom of the press and freedom of expression, it is not enough that three countries in the eu are singled out as having only partial freedom of expression according to the latest freedom house report, namely italy, bulgaria and romania. greece is also reported to be having problems. who among us does not recall the blank pages of newspapers that we saw a while ago in italy after the crackdown on journalists and newspaper offices? free speech must be defended. we must never forget that the free arts and freedom of expression were born in the young democracies of europe. in any democracy, citizens are free to criticize and have opinions on articles and books, and we must never accept that people are intimidated into silence. freedom of expression is the very backbone of the union we are all meant to serve and whose ideals we must stand up and defend, especially in times of challenge.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to say to konrad szymański: it's about discrimination. commissioner reding highlighted the eu's cornerstones, i.e. free movement and fundamental rights. i am convinced that the majority in this parliament supports all efforts to combat discrimination. it's worth our support. is it not also time for the commission to ensure that discrimination against persons in same-sex marriage and civil partnerships is brought to an end? the question is relevant because the stockholm programme emphasises that all citizens should be covered by the freedom of movement. all forms of discrimination shall be avoided. please note that it also covers discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. so far, that is good, but in the commission's action plan for the stockholm programme we cannot find any measures to guarantee equal rights for people in same-sex marriages. citizens who have entered into same-sex marriage in the countries where it is permitted cannot wait any longer. they must have the same right to move to other member states without being discriminated against in the context of a wide range of citizenship rights. we in parliament and the citizens want a response from the commission, and i hope that it will be a response that involves action for the equal rights of all people regardless of sexual orientation.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i'll try to give you a little history lesson. first of all, i would like to thank elisabeth jeggle for her outstanding leadership in this very difficult case. we took over a case where, in short, the commission proposal was almost extremely animal-friendly and the first reading of parliament was almost extremely industrial-friendly. the european parliament, under the leadership of elisabeth jeggle, the commission, the council, our political groups and committee officials, with the very good support of the swedish and spanish presidencies, have been chewing us through this, bit by bit, word by word, into what is now a fairly balanced directive. if it is the animals that we want to protect first, then i would personally like to draw attention to the structures we are building today for the animals we eat. we have huge workloads there. these animals are currently less protected than the experimental animals. look at the long slaughter trucks in europe, don't you ever see them when you're on the highway? i have seen tough reports and tough negotiations before, but i have never actually seen parliament change its views and decisions according to the focus of the lobby groups present. i would not have thought that about this parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fight for animals goes hand in hand with the fight for better research. anyone who defends animal testing is undermining research. there's a tradition, a false belief in the efficacy of animal testing. more and more drugs are human-specific reactions, and that's where animal testing becomes completely useless. the alternatives, on the other hand, are efficient, faster and cheaper. the green amendment is about helping animals and research, so i recommend voting for them instead. in addition, there is a loophole for the use of monkeys. we should cover that with the green amendments. monkeys can only be accepted in the worst case for severe human disease symptoms, no loopholes there. finally, countries must have the opportunity to take the lead in protecting animals and trying out new methods. only then can europe become a world leader in this field of animal welfare and medical research.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i don't feel safe at all with the exception of generic drugs. in such cases we must also exclude all transit, otherwise we will have the problems we have had in recent years. you say it's only for large-scale commercial things. then why don't you write that individual people should be exempt, not that they can be exempt in the rules? i am also concerned about the digital environment in terms of technological barriers. it says that methods that can be used to circumvent technical protection should be considered illegal if this has limited commercial use. it could also be that they are being disseminated with no economic interest at all, that there is no economic interest at all, but rather the desire to support people's use of technologies that could also be used for "circumvention technologies". how do you feel about that? secondly, i'm not at all comfortable with you writing things that are controversial from ipred and data storage here. if we want to change it after the evaluations, it's stupid to have written this down.
mr president, we all agree that counterfeiting is a bad thing and that combating counterfeit goods is good. it is good for european consumers and citizens, and it is also important for european businesses, as has been pointed out. it is good that we protect trademarks and the trademark acquis, including geographical indications. so far, so good. but as mr kamall has pointed out, there is a difference between the world of atoms and the world of bits. when it comes to the internet chapter, legitimate concerns have been raised by internet service providers and other businesses involved in that area. there are concerns that the agreement may in fact harm development, harm european businesses and harm the way we take advantage of this new technology. i would therefore urge the commission to go ahead, by all means, with the anti-counterfeiting part, but to scrap the internet chapter. that would be the best solution for everyone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this concerns amendment no 48, where an error has crept in with regard to the 'minimum income'. it's been translated into swedish at minimum wage, which is incorrect. it's been noted and discussed with the translation unit and it will be changed after the meeting.
in writing. − we voted today, 08/09/2010, in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states part ii of the integrated guidelines for europe 2020 (2010/0115(nle)), a7-0235/2010. we would like to stress, however, that there are parts of the report to which we are opposed, such as proposals for detailed regulation of member states' labour market policies, supranational control of member states' industries and eu regulation of minimum wages. we want to safeguard the principle of subsidiarity. however, we would like to stress that much of the report is good, for example, we obviously support the principles of equal treatment for men and women and equal pay for equal work.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the report on the employment guidelines, but we would like to point out that we have noted important differences in the various language versions. we have voted for the member states to guarantee an adequate minimum income, as stated in the english version of the amendments. in the english language version, this has unfortunately been translated as 'minimum wage'. wage levels are not a matter for the eu and we have therefore assumed that the swedish language version is incorrect. we have also chosen to vote in favour of the report despite the undefined references to 'high taxes' as inhibiting growth. taxation is also not a matter for the eu and we believe that there are many examples of tax-financed activities that contribute significantly to growth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the president of the commission made a speech yesterday, and it was emphasized that the eu must stand up for a common foreign and security policy. we've heard this many times. barroso also talks about a common defence. however, in my view, there is no coherence between the two policies unless we also take into account the defence industry and arms exports. as i said, the eu treaty includes - and this should be taken for granted - the principle of solidarity and the consultation of the member states within the council and the european council on all kinds of foreign and security policy issues. can you be any clearer? the council common position of 8 december 2008 establishes common rules for the control of military technology and equipment. where have these common positions gone? have they not reached france? maybe they haven't even reached us once? the eu countries lithuania, estonia and poland, as well as georgia, argue that the sale of the mistral warship to russia undermines the security of these countries. admiral vladimir vysotsky, the head of the russian navy, has said that if russia had had a mistral ship at the time of the conflict with georgia, the russian black sea fleet would have completed its mission in 40 minutes instead of 26 hours. we cannot allow the large member states to take liberties. we know that the major powers are keen to have a monopoly on arms exports, which is of course unacceptable. it should be the task of the belgian presidency to initiate discussions within the eu to reach clear common rules on arms exports.
in writing. − the care of the elderly must be of high quality and a priority part of the welfare system, which is evolving in line with demographic trends. we fully understand that the requirement of minimum social standards in all contracts in health care is unfortunate, and we do not always have this in sweden, where it is the responsibility of the parties to set the wage levels, which is not the competence of the eu. we do not think that this should be changed in any way but have nevertheless voted in favour of the resolution as we consider the main issue to be very important.'
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) we voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on long-term care for the elderly, b7-0491/2010. we would like to stress, however, that we do not agree with everything in the resolution. this is particularly true of the call for minimum wages. we are thus upholding the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
in writing. - i voted today in favour of resolution b7-0491/2010 on long-term care for the elderly. but there is one point in the resolution with which i do not agree. in paragraph 12 the resolution calls for minimum standards for all contracts in the health and care sector, including minimum wages. this is something the swedish christian democrats are opposed to. it is also foreign to the swedish model of collective agreements. our swedish model has proven to be in the interests of both workers and employers. i firmly believe that wages are a matter of agreement between the social partners and not something that politicians should bid on or under each other.
for the alde group. i am not going to go into that. i understand, as many of my colleagues have said, that the timing of the discussion of the readmission agreement between pakistan and the eu may be seen as ill-chosen after the flood disaster in august. we all have the terrible images of the victims on our retinas and we share their suffering. but let us not fall into the trap of confusing things. the readmission agreement is simply a way of settling the legal aspects between the eu and pakistan. i think that the agreement should be seen in a broader context, where we are working for legal migration while at the same time tackling irregular migration. i would like to thank the commission for the guarantees it has given in respect of the follow-up to the agreement. it has stated that it is pressing pakistan to sign the geneva convention and has undertaken to keep parliament informed of the effects of its implementation. the alde group, which i represent today, supports the report on readmission agreements and would also like to encourage the commission to give us a positive answer to the question of introducing a mechanism to evaluate all readmission agreements as soon as possible. it is certainly a complicating factor that pakistan has not signed the geneva convention, but let us remember that all our member states are bound by the convention and by the eu treaties and would be in grave breach of these if people were sent back to countries where their rights are at risk of being violated. this is the so-called principle of non-refoulement and it applies regardless of whether pakistan accedes to the geneva convention or not. there is also indirect non-refoulement, and i would like to say very briefly that the agreement is a necessity because it regulates our cooperation with pakistan.
the submission of an opinion by the committee on fisheries. - mr president! - what is it? thank you, esther de lange, for your work on your report. i am very pleased that the committee on fisheries is supporting an opinion which stresses the great importance of ensuring that we have consistency between our various policies. the european union must take this very seriously, because it is reducing the resilience of our marine ecosystems, which are desperately needed today to absorb carbon dioxide and thus become a link in the chain of what we need to prevent climate change. the eu must be at the forefront of this issue in nagoya this autumn and also in the reform of the common fisheries policy. we are very pleased to see the committee on fisheries stressing the need for spatial planning in coastal and marine areas and an integrated maritime policy. we can no longer let the different sectors operate independently as if nature were not interconnected, and the objectives we have to slow down the loss of biodiversity must also be taken seriously in fisheries policy.
mr president, there are several problems with this report, but i will highlight one fundamental problem: inconsistency. it starts out by saying that we do not have the facts and figures necessary to legislate, so therefore we should have this ip observatory to get those facts and figures. then the report goes on to criticise the commission for not having proposed legislation. it goes on to propose non-legislative measures, etc. i agree with what was said at the outset: we do not have the facts and figures available to us as policymakers; that is the fundamental problem and is the reason why the european institutions have been unsuccessful in finding a good policy for these matters. i therefore recommend the verts/ale, s&d and gue/ngl resolution, which states that we should by all means get the facts and figures, then consider what to do, and then we can legislate.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a big thank you to mr reimer böge, who has taken the ideas of the other groups and produced an excellent report. i think we can all agree that the lisbon treaty requires some technical changes, but the important thing is that the problem is not just about technical adaptation. for us in the socialist group, it is now that we will see whether we believe in europe or not. eu cooperation is not a residual item after national policy has been defined. if we are serious about the lisbon treaty, new tasks must be financed. if we are serious about europe becoming a world leader in research and development, climate, energy and green jobs and having a more common foreign and security policy, then you cannot just drop this kind of spending when you have national budgetary problems. projects such as iter, climate policy, a new common foreign policy, the proud flagship projects of eu 2020 or a forthcoming enlargement - all of these cannot be financed within the current framework. the expenditure in the eu budget is not just a cost, but it adds a crucial value to the member states. if the opportunities are seized, they can even be a burden on national budgets, and the eu budget can become an opportunity, not just a problem. it is therefore essential that the commission and the council now dare to carry out the long-promised but not yet implemented mid-term review of the ceilings in the current long-term eu budget. i must conclude with a question to both the council and the commission: you really have to explain how an interinstitutional agreement which provides for an ambitious mid-term review of the long-term budget can be ignored. how have you been reasoning when you simply ignore the international agreement? that's my question.
for the alde group. i am not sure that this is the case. i am glad that we can have this important discussion tonight, even though the hour is very late. one of the greatest advantages of the european union is that it has given and continues to give us great opportunities to lower thresholds and open up trade between the countries of europe. this is creating the prosperity and growth that our continent so badly needs, especially after the economic crisis. europe will not be strong in the 21st century on the initiative of us politicians. we need to embrace more and more the truth that growth is created by companies and entrepreneurs. europe can only be strengthened by entrepreneurs and their good opportunities to create businesses that can grow and employ people and become profitable. the community trade mark system is a very effective way of breaking down barriers to trade and creating growth. it is essential, especially for smes, which we want to be able to grow and see grow, to enjoy trade mark protection throughout the union without the hassle and red tape. it is therefore with great concern that i have received information that member states, in what i see as a complete breach of their obligations, are attempting to require that a community trade mark be granted only if it is used in several countries. of course, it should be sufficient for it to be used in one member state to obtain trade mark protection throughout the union. the behaviour of these member states is a serious threat to the community trade mark system and i hope, commissioner, that you will address those member states which are trying to introduce this new criterion and are jeopardising the possibility of effective trade mark protection throughout the union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the gallo report. none of the reports put to the vote in the house today are good and i have therefore voted against all three. there are many problems. among other things, trademark infringement is conflated with copyright, voices are raised for regulation and monitoring and an unreasonable compensation system is encouraged, while acknowledging that the effects of existing legislation must first be investigated. i believe instead that fundamental rights and the free market can be combined. if the principle of mere conduit is threatened, we would be risking the dynamic internet we know today. if an isp were to be held responsible for the legality of content, it would force them to minimize the risk by monitoring and sorting traffic. this would lead to cautious companies that cannot grow and hire and problems for new companies to access the network. the abolition of the principle of mere conduit extends the role of isps to include the role of controllers. nowhere else in society is the messenger responsible for the content. nor is there any other place where we instruct our citizens not to break the law every time they use a service. what if, for example, we had a mandatory information on the sale of postage stamps that it is forbidden to send mail containing anthrax bacteria? instead, i give my wholehearted support to neelie kroes and her digital agenda. the it commissioner's flagship initiative demonstrates an understanding of how to combine a market perspective with respect for fundamental rights, including online. china is an example of how the internet has been destroyed by interference with freedom of speech and surveillance. let's not go down the same road. the countries of northern europe have led the way through voluntary agreements and effective competition. it's north, not east, that we should be looking.
in writing. − we believe it is important to provide sufficient funds for the new eu strategy for growth and jobs, eu 2020, but also to ensure that the eu budget can meet the needs of aid, combating climate change, etc. in addition, the lisbon treaty has given the eu a number of new competences, including in the fields of foreign policy, sport, space research, energy and tourism. however, we believe that the financing of this should be mainly through reallocation of funds already available from the eu budget, such as from the agricultural budget, so as not to increase the overall size of the eu budget.
in writing. - i, like several others in the green group, chose to support the gallo report because, as a journalist and writer, born into an artistic family, i believe it is extremely important to tackle the problems of increased infringement of intellectual property rights. without opportunities for decent income for artists, writers, composers, filmmakers, photographers and musicians, we have a culturally and intellectually hollowed out society, far from the green, cultural growth potential that i believe is the foundation of a green ideology. i would also like to emphasize that the report was supported by european organizations representing over a million cultural workers in europe, including the european federation of journalists and the european writers council. in sweden, i have been a member of the swedish journalists' association for almost 25 years and on several occasions i have been helped to protect my copyright from misuse, both commercial and artistically mutilated and taken out of context. during these years i have also been a member of the organisation alis, administration of literary rights in sweden. my first choice before the vote was to support the alternative report by alde, which does not call for joint criminal measures and was on the whole more balanced than the gallo report. when it fell to the vote, the gallo report remained the only option to support the right of copyright holders to charge for their work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we do not need to repeat again and again the diabolical atrocities to which the congolese have been subjected and are subjected, and it is clear that it is a shame that the international community has not been able to put a stop to this. this shame also affects the eu and the european parliament and our nations - a europe which has had and has so many relations with africa. we now have a special foreign service, which we are proud of. let us now see that this foreign administration is dealing with the situation in the congo, which we are right to expect. when we talk about what our foreign administration stands for, the word action is included, and we would like to see action to create peace and reconciliation in the congo. i would also consider it very obvious that the people behind these atrocities should be analysed and identified so that they can really be publicly denounced in the eyes of the general public, and i do not think that has happened so far.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i believe that you and the 27 member states you are now chairing have every reason to react very clearly and very quickly, as this is a very difficult situation for europe. we know that the roma have been persecuted for centuries, and recent times have shown shortcomings that europe cannot afford. if we want to explain to other countries that they should take care of themselves, we must also take care of ourselves. isabel fonseca is a journalist and author and she wrote a book called "bury me standing". all my life i've been on my knees. i would ask you, mr minister, to set up a truth commission on behalf of the council and the commission to look into what has happened to the roma in european history. i think it's necessary that we come to terms with our own history, otherwise we can't move forward in a credible way.
madam president, if the eu is to have any credibility in nagoya, it has not only to propose strategic plans but also to act on its present policies at home. the compromise proposal the commission is presently preparing to allow a continuation of the exportation of the acutely endangered european eel, a cites appendix ii species although it clearly qualifies for cites appendix i, is nothing other than a shame. the european eel stock, one common stock, has declined by 40% since 2007. if the eu is to have any credibility at all at nagoya or in the next cites meeting, there can be no other option than the implementation of a total export and import ban on eels. it should not listen to a small fishing sector that wants to export baby glass eels – threatened glass eels – to japan for the present price of eur 600 a kilo.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mrs fajon, for her very committed, enthusiastic and hard work on this dossier. it has been a great pleasure working with you – and the shadow rapporteurs as well – in our joint efforts to grant a visa-free regime to the citizens of albania and bosnia-herzegovina. the proposal we discussed today confirms the european union’s political will and our commitment on the liberalisation of short-term visa requirements for the citizens of all western balkan countries. this is part of the thessaloniki agenda and a cornerstone of our integration policy for the western balkans. by supporting the free regime, we are not only sending a political message. that message is important, but we are also concretely facilitating people-to-people contact, enhancing business opportunities and cultural exchanges and giving people the opportunity to get to know each other – giving the people of bosnia and albania the opportunity to get to know the european union and vice versa. we stand here today as a result of the hard work of the authorities and the people of these two countries, and i would like to pay tribute to that work. i congratulate them for the efforts made and the important results achieved. the result-oriented visa liberalisation dialogues between the two countries and the european commission acted as a very strong initiative and incentive, accelerating reforms towards reaching eu standards in the core areas of justice, liberty and security. the two countries have made important progress in improving passport security, strengthening border control, reinforcing the institutional framework to fight organised crime and corruption, as well as in external relations and fundamental rights. the commission has thoroughly monitored the steps taken. in our proposal of may this year, the commission identified a limited number of remaining open benchmarks for both albania and bosnia-herzegovina, which required further monitoring. this approach followed exactly that which was taken in 2009 for montenegro and serbia. in the case of albania, the open benchmark related to the development of a policy to support the reintegration of albanian returnees, the strengthening of capacities in the fight against organised crime and corruption and, finally, effective implementation of the confiscation of organised crime assets. regarding bosnia-herzegovina, the open requirements were the strengthening of the capacities of the fight against organised crime and corruption, steps towards improved electronic police data exchange, and harmonisation of the criminal code between state and entity levels. on the basis of detailed information provided by the two countries, expert missions with valuable participation of member states’ experts during this summer and, later, with other information available, the commission was able to present, on 14 september, our assessment of the fulfilment of the remaining open benchmarks. it showed that both countries had undertaken all necessary measures to fulfil all open benchmarks listed in the proposal of may this year. consequently, the commission considers that all the preconditions listed in the roadmap are met, and on this basis we propose to grant the visa-free regime. let me underline that the visa-free regime of the two countries also comes with responsibilities. in order to prevent abuse, it is essential that albania and bosnia-herzegovina take all necessary measures to limit influxes of persons making unfounded asylum applications. this aspect has been very strongly highlighted through the contacts between the commission and the two countries, and i know that efforts have already been made by the two countries in this respect. it is important that you continue the information campaigns, with the aim of properly informing and explaining to your citizens the meaning of short-term visa travel and what it entails, in particular warning against misuse for purposes incompatible with visa travel. now we are here – and this is a very important step – i hope that the council will be able to finalise the examination of this proposal during the coming weeks and that we can have a formal adoption that will be confirmed for november.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am glad that tonight we can finally say to the people of albania and bosnia: ‘you have not been forgotten’. i hope that the vote in plenary tomorrow will show a strong commitment by this parliament to visa liberalisation for albania and bosnia. the epp urges the council to respect their undertaking in the joint declaration adopted by the swedish presidency to grant a visa-free regime as soon as possible. now that the benchmarks have been met – according to the european commission – the people of albania and bosnia should see the light at the end of the tunnel and get visa-free travel to eu-schengen by christmas. the epp has been fully committed to accelerating the process of visa liberalisation, treating all the countries of the western balkans equally. we have pursued a consistent, realistic and credible line all the way through, supporting the authorities and taking the responsibility for the reform process while respecting the legitimate security concerns of european citizens. i sincerely regret that false expectations were raised with unrealistic timetables, and i am pleased that the other part of this house has finally joined our realistic path, accepting that, unfortunately, there were no possible shortcuts. we were ready when they were ready. now they are ready, and we congratulate the authorities of bosnia and albania for their achievements in pursing the reforms. strengthening the rule of law, combating crime and corruption are important for the people of the region and help close the gap with the european union. people-to-people contact, as commissioner malmström said, and breaking the sense of isolation, are important to promote stability in the region in a european perspective. i experienced the siege of sarajevo and was in the war in bosnia for years. the plea of the people who felt locked in and left behind is really close to my heart and has been at the basis of my commitment since i entered this house in the summer of 2009.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the progress made on the new capital adequacy rules is positive in many ways. the basel iii process is a prerequisite for restoring financial stability. the report we are now voting on is both balanced and well-formulated, but i would nevertheless like to highlight three points where it could have been clearer. firstly, it is important not to put too much pressure on banks with too short an implementation period, but at the same time it is equally important not to be too slow in implementing. the objective should be to ensure that banks have sufficient stability to face the next recession. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the bank. secondly, we must ensure that the implementation has close and positive cooperation with the united states and other actors. the clear ambition must be to stabilise the whole international banking sector, not just parts of it. areas with weaker regulatory frameworks or a slower pace of implementation can put the entire global system at risk. thirdly, regular stress tests are an excellent way to ensure continuous assurance of the stability of the banking system. this is therefore something we should use as an effective complement to the capital rules. both the frequency and the level of requirements for these tests could be advantageously increased. the crisis has shown that things can happen in a flash. in the financial sector, it is therefore important to keep a very close eye on developments.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the new basel rules create the conditions for stability and sustainable growth. the crisis has taught us that banks need to have more and better capital, and that regulation must promote sound banking and sound risk-taking. the leverage ratio rules must be designed in such a way that banks that lend low-risk capital are not penalised. the rules are likely to hit banks in the nordic countries particularly hard because these banks have large, low-risk mortgage portfolios. there is cause for concern. all the directives and new rules may be well balanced, but in the end we risk having too many rules which in turn can harm growth. i agree with sharon bowles. the commission must produce an analysis of the impact of all these new banking rules on growth in europe. rules and new laws are not always the answer. don't let the good become the enemy of the good.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in eastern congo, the un reports that at least 8,300 rapes were committed as an act of war in 2009. in the first quarter of 2010, 1,244 women were raped. there's an average of 14 rapes a day that we know about, because beyond those numbers, the dark numbers are gigantic. it is appalling that this has continued without strong condemnation from the international community, and europe also has a special responsibility in the congo. sexual and gender-based violence should always be seen as a war crime and a crime against humanity. it is shameful that the international community has so long turned a blind eye to the abuses suffered by congolese women and children. i am therefore very pleased with the commitment shown by the un envoy, margot wallström. her work is helping to bring the world's attention to the congo and its leaders. but now it's time for all of us to wake up. that is why i wholeheartedly support this resolution which was voted on by the house today. let us never turn our backs on the women and children of africa again.
in writing. − the report on health systems in sub-saharan africa and global healthcare, a7-0245/2010, was voted down by the moderates today, 07/10/2010. however, we would like to stress that we consider the report to be a very urgent subject - access to health care is a basic prerequisite for development. hundreds of thousands of children in sub-saharan africa die each year from diseases that are not fatal to anyone with access to basic health care. however, in our view, this report does not provide the answer to how this should be done. it is a fact that civil society has played, and still plays in many countries, a very important role as a provider of health care. to condemn the efforts of private health-care providers and ngos is not the way for anyone who has the poor's welfare in mind. we also want to emphasize that we obviously support the texts in the report on women's reproductive health and the condemnation of genital mutilation and the terrible acts of violence to which women are still subjected.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. it is therefore good that there is a discussion on health insurance systems and how health care can be organised in low-income countries. unfortunately, the tone and focus of the report could have been much better. it is regrettable, for example, that there are still notions in europe which allow formulations such as 'some populations live in such social and humanitarian conditions that they do not always understand the meaning of the concept of welfare' to be written. we also believe that the report takes an outdated approach to private health insurance and independent health care providers in some respects. in some parts of africa today, it is absolutely essential that they continue to operate if there is to be any health care at all. despite these shortcomings in the report, we believe that the aim is good and that there are a number of good initiatives being put forward. we also want to support the progressive forces working for the right to women's reproductive health in the aid organizations. we therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - in today's vote in the european parliament on the own-initiative report on health systems in sub-saharan africa and global health, i voted against. the report deals with a very urgent subject - access to health care is, of course, a basic prerequisite for development. hundreds of thousands of children in sub-saharan africa die each year from diseases that are not fatal to anyone with access to basic health care. it's a disgrace to us in the developed world. targeted assistance to provide access to healthcare is necessary. however, in my view, this report does not provide acceptable answers on how to do this. it is a fact that civil society, not least faith-based organizations, have historically played, and still play in many sub-saharan countries, a very important role as providers of care. the categorical condemnation of the efforts of private health care providers and ngos, as is done in this report, is certainly not the way to go for anyone who really has the poor's welfare at heart. that is why i voted against the report.
the committee on foreign affairs has tabled an opinion. - as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs on the financial regulation, my starting point was the madrid agreement, but also that it needed to be deepened on some points. it is about creating transparency in the budget by having more specific appropriations, especially for politically important and budget-heavy tasks. it is a question of guaranteeing the right to information on the total cost, including the share of the member states. it is a question of ensuring adequate control over the management of delegated powers so that we do not lose control of this complex organisation. this is not just about parliament's influence, but above all about the citizens' right to transparency in this new important service that the union is now entering. we've done very well with this. it's been a while. we have had to fight hard to do so, but i think we can also say that we have laid a good foundation for the new foreign service's ability to strengthen the eu's role in the world, under the full and good transparency of parliament and the citizens, and that is important.
for the alde group. let me begin by thanking you for the good spirit of cooperation that has characterised all of us in working on this very important issue. catherine ashton is certainly not faced with an easy task now that our common european external action service is to be set up. but parliament, together with the council and the commission, has laid the foundations for an effective representative organisation which will be able to represent europe and european values and interests around the world. the eu's strength is its diversity. the european union is made up of people with different backgrounds, skills and experiences. by creating an external service that takes advantage of women and men recruited from all our member states, we take advantage of what is europe's greatest strength and asset. at the same time, there must be no doubt that the skills and qualifications of the new foreign service are decisive for the appointment of posts. the european parliament has a very beautiful motto: 'united in diversity'. these are words that bind and have a deep meaning. i hope that the foreign service under catherine ashton will develop into a genuine european service, representing the citizens of all our member states, women as well as men. those who will serve in our common foreign service must be clearly trained to represent the whole of the union. i wish catherine ashton the best of luck with this important work with all my heart!
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. a big thank you to the rapporteur, mrs sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska! she has done an excellent job and in principle we are in agreement in the committee on budgets, although there are some areas - and i will return to that - where we social democrats have a slightly different view. we are well aware of the crisis in the member states' finances. nevertheless, we are basically defending the eu budget, even if we are now at very low levels, especially with regard to new political commitments for next year, where even parliament is keeping below one per cent in growth rates. it's very modest. the rate of increase in payments is higher and this is also reasonable. today, attempts to withhold payments to the structural funds would hit directly at the countries with the greatest problems in terms of jobs and growth. let us remember that countries such as greece, ireland, portugal, spain and latvia are all net recipients of eu budgetary funds. cutting the budget is not in their best interest. we must not forget that. first of all, we are restrictive. indeed, over the past 20 years, the eu budget has grown more slowly than the member states. we shouldn't forget that either. secondly: we social democrats do not accept that austerity is the only way to deal with the crisis. that is why we are fighting for an increase, especially in category 1a, where investment, research and development and labour market measures are located. this has to go up. however, we do not entirely agree with the council and the commission on the iter project. we are in favour of this project, but it cannot be the only priority in terms of research and development. it cannot be allowed to knock out everyone else. therefore, it will require reconsideration and more money if we are to go ahead with iter. third, and not least: in this crisis, we must maintain solidarity. when cuts in the structural funds hit hardest on those who really need support, it is not an acceptable policy. fourthly, the commission we also think that a certain increase is justified by the treaty of lisbon. the eu is given a range of new tasks: the external service, new financial institutions, energy and climate. you cannot put new tasks on the eu and then not pay. finally, the external budget, which is clearly underfunded. if we're going to afford the palestinian aid and the enlargement, we need more money. that is why it was also important for us social democrats to link the 2011 budget to a longer-term discussion on own resources, the budgetary ceilings for 2012 and 2013 and the financing of the new financial support mechanism. to achieve this, i welcome the commissioner's mention of flexibility as a possible way out. i am absolutely convinced that we will not be able to get through this budgetary negotiation if we cannot either review the budget ceiling or use the flexibility instrument. i think it's going to be absolutely necessary.
madam president, i would like to point out a problem with the allocation of speaking time in this debate. mrs herczog pointed out that the committee on industry, research and energy did not receive any speaking time. the reason for that is that they tabled their proposals for the budget in another form, rather than actually tabling a formal opinion. it is not reasonable that this should lead to this committee being punished for choosing a more effective way of working than tabling a formal opinion. there has also been some confusion between those two parts of the debate – this 2011 debate and the budget review now coming up. as you may have seen, of the last five speakers in the previous debate, four were s&d speakers. in the coming debate we will only have one s&d speaker but i think half a dozen epp speakers. there has been some kind of confusion between the secretariat, the president and the political groups. i do not know who made the mistakes – perhaps we did – but let us just have a look at this for the future so that we can have a more reasonable allocation of speaking time in those debates.
madam president, i would very much like to join the chorus of thanks and congratulations, which are more than a mere formality this evening. i would like to thank commissioner tajani for his personal commitment, the council for its flexibility and, of course, my colleagues for reaching this compromise in first reading that is so important for us in business. in particular, i thank my friend małgorzata handzlik of the epp. having been a businesswoman myself before entering this house, i am fully aware that late payment is a serious issue for small companies. sometimes it can lead to bankruptcy. other times, at best, it can be a cause of uncertainty and can damage business. limiting the payment period for public administrative authorities to 60 days is, of course, a major achievement, since public authorities, as commissioner tajani has just said, simply have to process payments, so it is a matter of reducing bureaucracy. i am also glad that we have introduced btob as small businesses now have a clear legal framework to enable them to make claims for late payment from big companies, something they at times did not dare to do. i believe that we have found a good balance between respect for freedom of contract – which is all important – and providing small companies with the necessary tools to avoid being held hostage by bigger companies or public administration. instead of spending their time chasing debts, they can now devote their resources to effectively exercising their right to receive payment, interest and compensation. i believe this agreement should be a tool to deter late payments rather than a tool to enforce collection of late payments and, as malcolm harbour said, to really create a culture of paying on time which will make for a better functioning internal market and, of course, benefit all the stakeholders. we have shown that parliament can take concrete measures that can really make a difference, create more jobs and assist smes. now the overriding issue is for the council and the member states to assume their responsibility to make sure that these rules are properly enforced.
it is a terrible disaster that has struck hungary and i feel very strongly with the people affected. the inconceivable is that a by-product containing chromium, arsenic and mercury was stored in an open pond, where, in principle, heavy rainfall is sufficient to create a risk situation. how many more dams like this are there, in hungary, in europe, in the world? let me quote a scientist in biogeometry: i will quote in english: there is an urgent need for a complete global inventory of such tailing ponds, whose toxic contents represent chemical time bombs. ... this is already the third such catastrophe in europe alone in the last 12 years. all of them would have been avoidable. it cannot be the task of research alone to protect the world from such catastrophes. government regulations and supervision are needed here. what is the commissioner's view on this? we need stronger chemical legislation, stronger substitution principles, more effective rules, more rules, more controls and more substitution products. what should be done and how quickly can it be done? but the idea and the intention must be to bring about long-term change and prevention.
the past year has shown that the eu can make important decisions in difficult situations. i'm afraid the last few days have been a disappointment. when the eu needs clear and strict budgetary rules, france and germany hesitate. it's very disturbing. our message is this: do not touch the proposal of olli rehn! i would like to express my unreserved thanks to pervenche berès and my colleagues in the cris committee, who have shown that we in the european parliament can go beyond party lines and find common solutions for the good of europe. the alde group has an amendment which means that the introduction of a financial transaction tax requires that it be done globally. it is important that this be done globally. nationalism must not be allowed to re-establish itself in europe. it is a market economy with clear boundaries and free trade that creates wealth. we need a more united europe, a more open europe, a stronger europe - we simply need more europe. the proposed sanctions will initially apply only to the euro area countries. here we want to see a paper that includes the eu-27. i therefore want to make an oral amendment to the feio report, which i hope parliament will support. the rapporteur and the s&d group have indicated their willingness to do so. i'm reading the text in english: as far as possible, all 27 member states should apply to the maximum all the economic governance proposals, recognising that for member states outside the euro area this would be done on a voluntary basis. today is not the time to create a union that risks tearing it apart.
mr president, i think we should be clear about one thing, namely that the global economic crisis is mainly focused on the us and european economies. there are high levels of growth in other parts of the world, but not in europe and not in the us. more than anything else, this is rooted in overspending and lack of growth. i think that is one of the most important challenges. we need to kick-start growth but, in doing so, we need to have stability in public finances. that is why i find it worrying – adding to what has already been said by previous speakers – that some european leaders are now talking about more lax and flexible rules regarding the stability pact, and opting for a change to the treaty. i do not think that what europe needs is a decade of discussions about treaty changes. that is more of a policy for disintegration than integration and competitiveness. we need to strengthen the stability pact with as many automatic sanctions as possible. we need to ensure that budget deficits are reduced, in confidence and in good order, at the same time as we are reforming in order to open ourselves up for more economic growth – opening up european borders and opening up for more competition. that is the way ahead and what we should stand up for in the g20. that is also the aim for the european agenda.
mr president, like my colleague from the ppe group a little while ago, i also have to point out a mistake in our voting list. the s&d voting list should read: minus, plus, plus. nothing else.
there are several translation errors in the swedish version of this report. among other things, maternity leave is confused with parental leave. but in amendment no 125 in particular there is a very serious translation error. the swedish version of amendment no 125 states that paternity leave must be fully paid. it doesn't do that in other versions. this means that there will be no difference between amendments nos 50 and 125 in the swedish version. it would be good if this were corrected.
mr president, this is an important oral amendment: ‘whereas, as far as possible, all 27 member states should follow to the maximum all the economic governance proposals, recognising that, for non-euro-area member states, this will in part be a voluntary process’. it has been accepted by the ppe group, it has been accepted by the s&d group and even the commissioner has accepted it. i hope that you all can accept this oral amendment. it is important for me, it is important for the alde group and it is especially important for my country, sweden, if we are ever going to join the euro.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rangel report a7-279/2010. however i strongly disagree with the rapporteur's assumption that ‘the treaty of lisbon significantly deepens democracy in the eu, giving to citizens of the union, mainly through the parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the commission’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rangel report a7-0278/2010. however i strongly disagree with the rapporteur’s assumption that ‘the treaty of lisbon deepens significantly democracy in the eu, giving to citizens of the union, mainly through the parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the commission’.
in writing. - a strong and modern europe requires a budget geared to the future and growth, while the economic situation calls for prudence and restraint. we have therefore chosen to maintain a budgetary constraint focusing on broad-based investment in research, development and innovation that creates growth and jobs in line with the europe 2020 strategy. we want to see a europe that is economically, socially and climate-friendly, so we have voted for investments in the environment, investment in human capital and control of financial markets, but always within the limits of existing resources. the european union's agricultural policy still accounts for an inexcusable proportion of the budget, and yesterday's policies will not solve tomorrow's challenges. that is why we voted against the proposed milk fund of eur 300 million and proposed the abolition of eu export subsidies for agricultural products and tobacco. since everyone has to do their bit in these economically difficult times, we have also voted to reduce the costs of the administration of the eu.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have today delivered on our priorities by voting for higher funding for research, justice and more money for climate change, but also for a reduction in funding for agricultural subsidies, export support, tobacco farming and milk funds. although not all of the priorities were what we wanted, we naturally voted in favour of a budget for the eu for 2011.
in writing. - a strong and modern europe requires a budget geared to the future and growth, while the economic situation calls for prudence and restraint. i have therefore chosen to stick to a budgetary constraint, focusing on broad investment in research and development and innovation that creates growth and jobs, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. as i want to see an economically, socially and climatically sustainable europe, i have consistently voted for investments in the environment, individuals and the control of financial markets, but always within the limits of existing resources. a large part of the budget goes to the eu's agricultural policy. unfortunately, the current design of the cap is rarely geared to solving the challenges of tomorrow. a vibrant countryside is very important. however, continued export subsidies and support for tobacco farming are not the way to go. instead, we need the right conditions for food production in europe, proper animal welfare and incentives for farmers to produce green energy. since everyone has to do their bit in these economically difficult times, i have also voted to reduce the costs of the administration of the eu.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. it is a modest budget, but it also contains the necessary investments in research, energy and youth activities, and allows the creation of a new eu external action service and new financial supervisory authorities. however, it is also a budget where many of the eu's new priorities lack adequate funding, such as the eu's new strategy for growth and jobs (eu2020), climate policy, and eu foreign and aid policy, in particular support for palestine. to keep the budget down, we have proposed further cuts in eu agricultural aid, which were voted down. we have also voted for an inquiry into the eu's own resources system, including a tax on financial transactions. whatever the design of a new system of eu revenue, it must be budget-neutral and respect the member states' competences in the field of taxation. as regards parliament's own budget, we believe that the committees which have been given more important tasks by the treaty of lisbon need to be strengthened. this justifies a reinforcement of the staff of the secretariat of parliament and the political groups. however, we do not believe that there is a need for staffing for members. parliament has now decided to put the appropriations for the increase in the allowances for assistants into reserve, which should not be released unless all the conditions are met. we would also have preferred to increase parliament's resources by means of efficiency and redistribution, so that the overall budget is not increased.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain on the decision on parliament's draft budget. the increase in the daphne programme, which aims to combat violence against women, is encouraging. i am also pleased that parliament is rejecting the commission and council proposals for cuts to the palestinian authority. but i would also like to stress that i think parliament is acting irresponsibly in allocating such large sums of money to the eu system and to itself in the form of programmes and subsidies and benefits for the bureaucracy. at the same time, member states are being forced to make brutal cuts in order to meet the requirements of the stability pact - the neoliberal pact which the majority of this parliament fully supports. the big winner is agriculture, in particular the creation of a milk fund of eur 300 million. for us in the european parliament, this decision is embarrassingly difficult to explain to the struggling people who demonstrate in country after country. why should they suffer while the budgetary expenditure of the eu system is completely unaffected by reality?
in writing. − working towards an equal society is a very important matter of principle no one should be discriminated against because of parenting. it may be added that it is of great importance from a socioeconomic perspective that women and men can combine family and professional life in order to achieve a high level of employment. we therefore regret that the report does not represent a clear step forward for gender equality in europe. it represents an outdated view of equality where the mother should take the primary responsibility for the children instead of both parents sharing responsibility. it is also wrong to propose a mandatory ban on working mothers for six weeks after birth, as is done in the report. we have therefore voted in favour of the parts which we consider to be positive, such as amendments protecting national schemes with an ambitious parental insurance scheme, the increase in the minimum level of maternity leave and the introduction of paternity leave in the directive. we did not, however, vote in favour of the report as a whole, because we consider it to be too vague, unclear and out of date. the main reason is the lack of a clear gender perspective.
in writing. the swedish social democrats voted in favour of the estrela report on a directive amending council directive 92/85/eec on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding. we would have liked the directive to have focused on parental leave rather than maternity leave. we would also have liked - especially as regards a minimum directive - to have been less detailed and more flexible in terms of, for example, the level of compensation and time limits for the period immediately following birth. however, we believe that the report is important in improving the current directive which provides very limited possibilities for reconciling work and parenting in many of the eu member states. the decision now provides for a first invitation to negotiate to be addressed by the council of ministers.
in writing. - we believe that the development of statutory parental leave is of the utmost importance for every country, but in the final vote we did not want to vote in favour of the parliament's bill because it went against several principles that are very important to us. firstly, the proposal would introduce a compulsory six weeks' leave for mothers only. we believe that parents should be able to choose for themselves how they take their parental leave, and that the proposal would be a step in the wrong direction for gender equality in sweden. secondly, we do not think it is reasonable to increase the level of parental benefit to 100% of the salary. for sweden, this could lead to a reduction in the length of parental insurance to finance such a costly system. we believe that the design of social security systems is a matter for the national parliaments.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency for the purpose of the exchange of information between the member states.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report without in any way abandoning our opposition to european taxation. we also continue to reject the establishment of a high-level group to discuss a possible european common treasury (ect) which would provide the european union with its own financial resources. we have also expressed a different view in our vote on other points.
with the lisbon treaty and the new external action service, this possibility will be further expanded on the world stage. this development, of course, also entails a further increase in responsibility. we have a special responsibility in all kinds of relations with non-democracies, whether it be aid or trade. europe and the eu should and must take the lead. the eu will lead the way. among the funding instruments we are discussing are building blocks that will enable us to make a real difference. the conditions are there, but that does not automatically mean that we will succeed. the optimal impact of any aid effort requires that our development work is constantly permeated by democracy-promoting activities and public opinion-building. this may seem obvious, but it is not for everyone. in the un, the eu is leading the way. it is the eu that is standing up in the negotiations against totalitarian regimes, and it is we who are consistently and unfailingly standing on the side of the victims, and that is how it should of course be. it is therefore disheartening to note that globally the direction we want to take democracy and human rights is not the direction we want to take, and i have the feeling that some members of our parliament do not seem to fully appreciate the importance of democracy as the most important and fundamental building block of development. the committee on development and cooperation regularly sees attempts to launch writings which subtly, between the lines or openly, give a measure of acquiescence to totalitarian regimes. for example, it was recently argued that the big problem in dictatorships is that health care is at risk of being privatized. the fact that widespread famine has never occurred in a democracy is seldom noticed. that attitude is simply not sustainable. for our financial instruments in the aid budget to work optimally, we must put the promotion of democracy at the heart of all our external relations, and this must not be done merely in ceremonial contexts and in words, but in practical action!
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i would like to say that the removal of tariffs and trade barriers as a step in supporting pakistan in the face of this terrible disaster is very, very welcome. i think that for the first time in this house i am impressed by the speed and determination of both the commission and the council in this matter. of course, money is needed. but what does it matter if we give aid and money - if not to numb our own guilty conscience - if at the same time we make it harder for poor people to get back on their own by imposing tariffs and trade barriers? what we are doing now, namely the broad and rapid removal of customs duties and trade barriers on a total of 75 different customs routes, corresponding to 27% of pakistan's exports, is a good response to the disaster facing the country. but now we in parliament have a responsibility. we have a responsibility to act quickly. this cannot be an example of how long the political process can take. pakistan needs the money and support now, not in a year. we have to show that we understand. at the same time, i am saddened by the resistance to this. i received a campaign letter from the european textile producers, where they opposed this, because they were afraid that pakistan would export more to europe, which they did not want. but that's the point, isn't it? aren't they supposed to be able to trade with us to get out of their poverty? if it were the case that european consumers got a little cheaper textiles, would that be a problem? free trade and solidarity are often celebrated here until we decide. let us now, here, show that these values mean the most to us when they are needed the most. there is perhaps no better occasion to stand up for both free trade and solidarity than in the context of this proposal.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, tonight we are discussing a legislative proposal which the commission tabled in 2005 concerning the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries – the ‘made in’ regulation. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs muscardini, for her dedication in support of our proposal and for her hard work. i wish her much success in carrying it further through the legislative process. 2005 was long before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and therefore long before this house received equal legislative powers regarding trade policy, but the lack of legislative powers did not prevent the european parliament from twice expressing its support for this proposal. despite our consistent efforts, there has been no progress towards adoption in council. now that we are under the lisbon treaty, i am pleased the european parliament can play its full role in relation to this proposal. i say this because the eu needs to adopt legislation on origin markings for certain goods from third countries. today, the eu does not require origin-marking: products can bear an origin mark provided that this does not mislead the consumer, in line with the ec directive on unfair business practices of 2005. the purpose of our proposal is to introduce a compulsory marking of origin on imports of certain products and to establish clear rules on how origin shall be established. the objectives of our proposal are clear – to enable consumers to know the origin of the goods and to ensure transparency according to a single standard by which origin is determined. of course, information on origin does not cover everything the consumer may want to know about a specific product, but has the benefit of being useful and clear. secondly, being better informed, consumers will then be free to decide what to purchase according to their preferences. incidentally, our proposal can also contribute to reducing the incidence of fraudulent or misleading origin marking. it is limited in scope, applying to goods such as leather, textiles, footwear and glassware and it would not apply to sectors like electronics, ict equipment, chemicals, machinery, cars, etc. among the product categories covered, there are products for which information about origin is particularly important: those that are destined for the final consumer. one of the amendments adopted by the committee on international trade clearly refers to this condition, which i find positive. of course, we will need to ensure consistency between this principle – namely ‘goods for final consumers’ – and the actual products that will ultimately be covered by the regulation, as detailed in its annex. i will not deny that origin marking has a cost for traders and exporters to the eu. the cost will notably depend on the production processes and technical marking rules. therefore, it is important to keep these costs to a minimum. the commission would be in charge of drafting the rules regarding the modalities of the marking, and will pay the utmost attention to minimising costs by relying on international practices, consulting with member states and all the industries and traders involved. setting this proposal in a wider context, other large trading partners – like the us, canada, japan and china – have long had such schemes in place. we are therefore able to draw useful lessons from the experience of others. in conclusion, i underscore the commission’s determination to work closely with parliament in order to have this proposal adopted and to have an efficient, accurate and cost-effective scheme for origin marking.
for the ppe group. mandatory origin labelling, or made in as it is known, means that goods imported into europe from the rest of the world must be labelled with their origin. i would argue that this is a proposal for the last century, when something that was made in, say, sweden also had parts that were made in sweden. but in the proposal, it's as if they've missed world trade, globalization, global supply chains. one of my favorite examples is this shirt that i'm wearing. it's made from cotton from egypt, woven in italy. it's designed in hong kong and finally sewn in china. i think a much better description than made in china, which it would probably get under this framework, would have been made in the world, to quote pascal lamy, former commissioner and current secretary-general of the wto. because that's the world today. this is not a proposal that provides better information. i think that on the contrary, this is a proposal which creates new barriers to trade and makes trade more difficult and perhaps even protectionist. that is precisely why this type of regulation is prohibited in the eu. in the internal market, for example in sweden, you cannot require that goods imported from germany be labelled with the country of origin. it is true that many of our trading partners have this type of regulation, for example the united states. the united states introduced such a provision in 1930, but it is nothing to imitate. we all know that the 1930s was one of the darkest decades in the history of world trade. instead of introducing trade rules from previous centuries, new trade barriers and making world trade more difficult, i think we should do the opposite. to get out of the recession, we should make trade easier. because my message to the commission is: do it again, do it right! i shall vote against this motion tomorrow and i am sure that several colleagues will follow my example.
acta, or the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement as it stands, is very controversial. it has been very controversial here in the european parliament, but also in sweden, which i represent. i've been very critical, especially of a lot of what i perceived as secrecy, that the texts were secret, and so on. it has created a feeling and an atmosphere where myths about the treaty have been allowed to flourish. the most convincing of all seems to be the myth that customs, as a consequence of acta, will start to examine ipods and computers. i heard it last in this chamber today. but now that we have all the texts and everything is on the table, i can see that it was wrong and that it was just myths. i think if shakespeare had written a play about the acta debate, he would have called it "much ado about nothing" too. the commission has promised that acta will not change anything in eu law and when i read this i feel the same way. the fact that nothing is changed in the legislation means that nothing is changed in the daily lives of citizens and that nothing is changing the relationship of citizens to the internet, for example. but that does not mean that acta is unimportant or unnecessary, as someone in this house has said. on the contrary, acta is creating a global gold standard for intellectual property protection. this is important and in the interests of both sweden and europe. it reduces the number of conflicts and it's something that i hear when i meet swedish companies, they talk mainly about the need to enforce patents and protect the intellectual property rights that they have. that's good, especially outside europe. i have been reassured and reassured by the negotiating documents which have been received. i am convinced that the citizens will be too. that gives me a feeling of security in the further discussion of this matter in the european parliament.
mr president, on 10 march this year this house adopted, by an overwhelming majority, a resolution saying, among other things, that the agreement should not make it possible for any so-called three-strike procedures to be imposed. this is because we do not want internet service providers (isps) to start acting as private police forces and be forced to take on that role. the commission has repeatedly said in various oral statements that this is not the case. i welcome those statements. however, when you look at the text, it is already in the preamble, ‘desiring to promote cooperation between service providers and rights holders with respect to relevant infringements in the digital environment’. then, in article 2.18.3 as mrs schaake quoted, ‘shall endeavour to promote cooperative efforts within the business community to effectively address corporate infringements’. if this does not mean three strikes, what does it mean? it is all very well to talk about cooperation between rights holders and isps but what are the isps supposed to do? if they do not want to do it, what measures will be taken against the isps? i am very concerned that the language in this agreement – as mrs castex was saying –is so ambiguous that it is not really clear what it means. i still have the basic concerns that have been with us all along, and i would very much like to see a proper evaluation of the fundamental rights aspects of this agreement.
the integrated maritime policy is a very welcome approach because the seas are interconnected and all sectors that use the seas have a collective impact on the marine environment. this makes it disastrous and irresponsible to continue making decisions on the marine environment without taking into account the cumulative impact of fishing, dredging, shipping, wind and wave power, tourism, etc. on the marine environment. the marine strategy framework directive is the environmental pillar of the integrated maritime policy and it stipulates that all member states should have achieved good environmental status in our oceans by 2020. to achieve this, it is essential that member states implement integrated maritime management in practice as soon as possible, with decisions being taken in a single place. let me give you an example of how things can go wrong when different users of the ocean are regulated by different authorities and different laws. in southern kattegat, sweden and denmark have agreed to close the cod spawning area to fishing in a desperate attempt to protect the last remaining cod stock. recently, another swedish authority decided that the municipality of falkenberg should be allowed to dump huge amounts of mud from ports into the sea, right in the cod's playground. member states now have an obligation to achieve good environmental status in the oceans by 2020. only by bringing together the decisions that affect the oceans and carrying out marine spatial planning, what in english is called marine spatial planning, will this become possible. the physical planning of the seas will also make it much clearer who the stakeholders are in the seas, who wants to use the seas and that the same rules must apply to everyone. fishing operations must also carry out environmental impact assessments. they must also follow best practice principles. they must also comply with the precautionary principle, just as gas pipelines on the seabed or wind farms. this would be a very big step forward.
mr president, this is very much about parliament being before or after: before the summit meeting or after the summit meeting. it is very much about trying to exert influence or to limit ourselves to making a comment afterwards. it is fair to say that in ukraine some things are developing in the right direction but there are a lot of things that are moving on the wrong track and, if they continue, they will move ukraine further from european cooperation. when we raise worries and concerns we are not trying to raise obstacles, we are trying to get rid of them – and that is why we want the resolution to be adopted now. we know that in ukrainian society and in the ukrainian government there is a keen interest in listening to what the european parliament has to say on these matters. if we speak out they will listen and be aware. if we do not speak out, they will note that as well. that is why we favour a decision on the resolution at this part-session.
mr president, let me first of all congratulate mr gauzès for a responsible and listening leadership in this difficult process. i would like to reiterate, not least for the benefit of colleagues who are saying that they will vote against this report tomorrow – this might seem so obvious that it should not be said, but sometimes the obvious things need to be said – that private equity and dynamic financial markets are not only important for a competitive economy, they are crucial. we need them and they are good for a strong economy. that is why i think the report we are going to vote on tomorrow is worth our support. when we discuss private equity we are talking about the opportunities for smes to grow and to develop. we have achieved a solution for private equity which will not give any disadvantage to private equity funds. it will provide us with openness for third countries and for investments in other parts of the world; that was not always the situation. we have in that sense bettered the legislation. i think it is important that we have reduced the scope, so that we are not dealing with what were industrial companies now that we have made an exemption for holding companies. had we accepted the original proposal it would have meant that normal industrial companies and structures in a number of our countries would have been seen as financial institutions. that would have had created new problems not only for investments but also for industrial development. all in all as always things could have been better, but the important thing is that now we have the preconditions for dynamic, financial markets which are good for the european economy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu's single market is perhaps the most important instrument for getting europe back on track. those who try to make globalization a threat are completely wrong. globalisation is an opportunity for europe. if we do not want europe to become an isolated continent, we must continue to break down barriers and borders. in that endeavour you have my full support and that of the liberal group. we need to do more to break down barriers. it's our common mission. i would have liked you to go further and to work more closely with what mario monti presented earlier. he gave a very thorough analysis of what europe could do. the commission, but also we in the european parliament, must be bolder. we have to be clear-eyed. europe can get out of the crisis, but not by remaining where it is today.
mr president, ‘the greatest danger that threatens us is protectionism’, german chancellor angela merkel told the financial times yesterday. in this context, the commission’s initiative comes at the right time, a time when we need to refocus on the real economy to get out of the crisis. the single market act is an historic initiative. in my view, it should be given the same status that the delors white paper was given 20 years ago. i truly hope that it will attract the highest political attention in the commission, in the council and in the member states. i am grateful to the belgian presidency which yesterday took up my pledge on behalf of the epp to convene the competitiveness council at ministerial level and take up the single market act. i also congratulate the commissioner, mr barnier, on his vision of developing a citizen-centred market. this will require partnership and shared responsibility. you can count on us in the epp, in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, for that. it will require partnership on the part of all the eu institutions. the commitment of the business community is equally important, with self-regulation a key to success. the four months ahead must be used in the public debate to build political support and to develop with citizens and stakeholders the 50-proposal outline in the single market act. it is time for action. today i would very much like to impress on us all a sense of urgency. unemployed people cannot wait any longer for jobs, citizens for better choice and lower costs, business for better competition. as the rapporteur on a more efficient and fairer retail market, i wish to stress that retail is a pillar of the single market and of improving our citizens’ lives. there are still national rules that impede free movement; unfair commercial practices and restrictions to market access still exist; there are toys that still have to be tested again when they have already been certified in another member state. in this respect, i would like to thank the belgian presidency for their commitment to transposition. the light at the end of the tunnel is not protectionism, it is free movement and the new single market act has the potential to equip europe to play its global role.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today we have a list of third countries whose nationals are required to have a visa when crossing our external borders. there is a further list of citizens who are exempt from this requirement. these lists must of course be reviewed regularly and adjusted according to the situation in each country. we have already abolished the visa requirement for the residents of albania and bosnia-herzegovina. we will eventually vote to abolish the visa requirement for taiwan, a country which has undergone a thorough democratization process. institutional reforms, a dynamic civil society and increased respect for civil liberties and rights have led to increased stability, including political stability, in taiwan. and we don't require visas for other countries in the region, so this is also part of creating greater regional cohesion. taiwan does not in any way represent a threat to the eu and the abolition of the visa requirement will benefit trade relations with the eu and also foster closer cooperation in the fields of culture and research, which are important for all of us. for many years, taiwanese politicians have had difficulty travelling to europe, even as private individuals, because of the fear of european countries of encountering china or of entering into political conflict with that country. today things are different and i hope that the agreement we are about to conclude will facilitate and improve political contacts between us politicians here in the eu and taiwan, and also lead to deeper cooperation for taiwan in the international community, at various levels. but there is also an ideological gain we are facing. europe stands for openness, for welcoming and for inclusion. e mutual trust is keeping the doors open between our countries and this will lead to profitability and cooperation and above all a more pleasant climate between countries. that is something i welcome with all my heart, in view of this important vote which we are about to hold here in the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european energy recovery programme is an instrument used to finance energy efficiency and renewable energy investments. projects that can be launched quickly and that directly impact the economy in a greener direction are valuable. the settlement, which ultimately released £1.3 billion to the programme, is a step towards a europe that works together to make it easier and cheaper to be environmentally friendly. launching energy efficiency projects creates new jobs, makes the economy greener and, moreover, reduces our dependence on oil-producing countries, which is particularly important in these times of crisis. this is precisely how the eu should work. money that's not used can go to other useful projects through this type of so-called revolving funds. but it took time for the council to realize this. the negotiations have been very difficult and the member states have done everything to try to get away from their previous commitments. today i am glad that we meps did not give in. during the negotiations, i worked for simpler rules and transparency in the application procedure. i am therefore very pleased that the agreement between the european parliament and the council of ministers also contains a clear focus on keeping administrative costs down.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the resolution. no additional subsidies are needed for the agricultural sector. it consumes more than 40% of the eu's total budget. the resolution lacks critical insight into the foundations of the cap system, which will necessarily have to cut its share of spending before the 2013 decision on a new long-term budget.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a big thank you to mr trichet and mr rehn for a very good job in these stormy times. my question is very specific to both of you. in my country, which is not part of the euro area, the debate is as follows: this is exactly what we said when we voted against the euro in 2001. it just goes to show we were right. the euro cannot work. this is a false assertion. so i'd like to ask you both a question. i think it is a key issue and a key responsibility for both of you to explain why europe and the euro area have got into these difficulties. is it because the euro area and the single currency have their problems? or is it because we have a number of politicians at home, in countries like ireland, portugal, spain and greece, who have not really done their job? both of you gentlemen, you have to explain this. otherwise, i'll never be able to explain it at home.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. as a matter of principle, i believe that vat should not be used to control consumption. but as long as exemptions and reduced vat rates do not obviously interfere with the free market, we have chosen to accept differences between eu member states. however, as you know, professor monti points out in his report on the internal market that even today's differences can have a negative impact on the internal market. it is therefore important that we call for a definitive system of vat rates and that we make it clear that the revision of the vat directive should be guided by the internal market strategy, not by the interests of individual countries. it is also important that we, as the commissioner says, focus on reducing administrative burdens, removing tax obstacles and improving the business climate, especially for smes, while ensuring that we create a system that is robust against fraud. taxation is a very national issue where the self-determination of nations is important. at the same time, it is important to remember that a well-functioning internal market is likely to require more and closer cooperation, including in tax matters, than we have today. i therefore hope that the commission and the commissioner will dare to tackle these issues in their future proposals and that a well-functioning internal market will really become the starting point, despite national opposition. difficult questions in difficult times require deep analysis.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon treaty has changed the power of parliament in fisheries policy. the management plans we are voting on tomorrow will be a first test of how parliament is living up to this responsibility. i think we've done the challenge pretty well overall, but it hasn't been without a few scarecrows. there is always the temptation for decision-makers to compromise scientific advice out of misguided concern for commercial fisheries. and the memory is short. although the cod fishery in the bay of biscay collapsed as recently as 2005 and commercial fishing was forced to cease altogether, there are still short-term economic incentives to jeopardise the long-term sustainability of the stock. in the committee, however, caution over gambling eventually won. counting fish is not difficult, it's like counting trees. it's just that fish move, and they don't show. so joked the world's leading marine biologist willy kristensen in the film the end of the line about the overfishing of the world's oceans. what he meant was that there are great uncertainties in stock estimates. it is important to remember this now that the eu and the world have decided to achieve msy, or maximum sustainable yield, for all commercial fisheries within about five years. i would like to point out that it is an absolutely impossible task to achieve msy for all fish species everywhere and at the same time. that's why we need to have safety margins. ecosystems must be seen as a whole and msy as an outer limit, not a goal. i hope that this will be taken into account in the future fisheries policy and respected in the management plans both in parliament and in the council. we need to have long-term management plans for all european marine ecosystems quickly. finally, i would just like to say that i fully agree with the rapporteur, mr gallagher, that the allocation of a quota for a single stock of spiny mackerel is completely against scientific advice.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are now at the plenary debate on the new legislation on medicinal product information. what we are about to discuss is the last part of what some call the most controversial part of the drug package, namely drug information. i must admit that i would have never thought, as recently as a year ago, that we would go to the plenary together as united as we are here in parliament. that is largely due to my shadow speakers. it is their constructive proposals and their willingness to compromise that have helped us to reach agreement and, hopefully, to adopt this report with very large support in the plenary. this is not just about compromise. i almost think it is even more important that we have realised that we want and strive for the same thing here in parliament. firstly, we all want better and more accessible information on medicines for europe's patients. secondly, that none of us wants to see advertisements for prescription medicines, and thirdly, that the information that reaches patients and is disseminated by companies must be checked and approved by the authorities concerned. these are principles that we all stand for and that have made it easier for us to come to an agreement. but that is also why we have felt compelled to rewrite the commission's proposal quite substantially. i would like to highlight five things that we have focused on in writing the commission's original legislative proposal. the first is that we have tried to change the perspective of the legislation from being about the right of pharmaceutical companies to disseminate information to now being about the right of patients to access information, and thus the obligation of companies to publish and provide the information. secondly, we have tried to tighten up all the exceptions that existed to avoid any loopholes for advertising what nobody wants. thirdly, we have ensured that pharmaceutical information coming from companies is verified and reliable because it must have passed through pharmaceutical authorities somewhere. the fourth thing we've done is we've said that any information that can come from pharmaceutical companies is something that should not reach patients or the public without them first asking for it. never be surprised by unsolicited information about medicines. that is why we have rejected all so-called push channels, such as advertising on radio, television and newspapers. the last thing i would like to point out is that companies are just one link in the information chain. health care and public society in many countries across europe must take on a much greater responsibility than they do today. there are things we disagree on. i would just like to stop at one point and ask my colleagues to accept the exception for information given by doctors to patients they treat, i.e. that such information does not have to go through the same verification process as other information. i have a concrete example which could be a problem if one does not accept such an exception, namely if, for example, a doctor in sweden could not give an english package insert to a patient who does not understand swedish because it could never be approved in sweden because english is not an official language there. i would like to end by addressing the council of ministers, which is unfortunately not here, and which has been rather vocal on this issue. i've missed the council of ministers. i have really wanted to take account of the council's views and arguments in order to facilitate the procedure, but so far i have been met with almost a flat-out 'no'. it's been hard listening to someone who doesn't give details. we have managed to reach agreement on this issue. i am convinced that the council of ministers, too, if it starts discussing the matter in detail, will indeed face approximately the same conditions for agreement as we have created here. but the council must not try to ration information to save money. it's not something we want to face. we don't think that patients who are less informed are in any way easier to deal with, or that it's cheaper to withhold information. i call on the council of ministers to take the reins, so that together we can ensure that europe has better medicines information for the benefit of patients.
member of the commission. − it is indeed gratifying to see such a level of positive engagement on such an important file and the general agreement that there is on the trust that has been placed in the basic principles and concepts on which this proposal should be moving forward. as i stated earlier, it was very important that we shift the focus of the original proposal into a patient-orientated proposal based on the patient’s perspective. i have been following the debate in parliament very assiduously. i have talked to many of you to see what is being talked about, and i believe that what we have – as i stated in my original comments – is a very positive document on which we should be now building in order to come to a final agreement. i would like to make some short comments on what you have said. concerning the ex-ante controls by ema mentioned by mr correia, i believe that 120 days would be somewhat excessive, and in fact what we will be proposing will be in the region of 60 days. the internet is a daunting task, and controlling websites containing information for patients is vital – but we all understand that it is also difficult. the points raised by mr buşoi and ms grossetête concerning strict rules covering the internet is very important, and this is what we should be developing. the focal point which the doctor needs to continue to have in the relationship with the patient is also very important, as stated by mr schnellhardt and also, in their own ways, by mr pargneaux and mr parvanova. i agree that doctors should not be instrumentalised by the pharmaceutical industry, but on the other hand a doctor should be a good medium through which information should flow. here we must ensure that information in the hands of doctors, as mrs rosbach has stated, should also be objective. my last point regards the comprehensive portal on diseases, which was mentioned by mrs weisgerber. i have to say that, in the case of medicines, this is already covered by the pharmacovigilance legislation that we are proposing. it is somewhat more difficult in the case of diseases. we already have a portal on rare diseases, but in the case of the overall spectrum of diseases we have started and are attempting to tackle this issue. however, it is proving to be a very complex and, as you will understand, an extremely extensive exercise. so i would like to thank you for the work that has been done on this dossier. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs again for the work that they have done, and i hope, as i said, that finally we will have a document on which we can work further. commission's position on the amendments tabled by the parliament: (com(2008)0663 – c6-0156/2008 – 2008/0256(cod)) amendments: directly acceptable: 1, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12, 22, 26, 35, 39, 40, 42, 56, 60, 63, 64, 65, 67 and 69 acceptable in principle: 9, 13, 14, 16, 19, 20, 21, 23, 27, 32, 34, 36, 37, 41, 46, 48, 50, 52, 58, 62, 66, 72, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78. acceptable subject to rewording: 5, 6, 7, 8, 15, 24, 25, 28, 33, 44, 49, 53, 59 and 70. partly acceptable: 2, 29, 31, 43, 54, 55, 61 and 79. not acceptable: 17, 18, 30, 38, 45, 47, 51, 57, 68, 71 and 73 (com(2008)0662–c6-0517/2008–2008/0255(cod)) amendments: acceptable: 2 and 7 acceptable in principle: 6 acceptable subject to rewording: 1 partly acceptable: 9, 10 and 12 not acceptable: 3, 4, 5, 8 and 11
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i am glad that the commission started by pointing out that the availability of medicinal product information today is so very different across europe. we have made a real effort to try to ensure that everyone has good access and to harmonize access. at the same time, i have made a personal demand that the information should not be reduced or reduced in any country. i know that this is something that has worried many people in sweden, for example, where we have had a system called fass for a long time. i would now like to turn directly to them and say that the way parliament has voted here is not only an opportunity to keep fas, but also an opportunity for other countries to introduce similar systems. it is quite funny how the regulations are today in europe, where anyone can say anything about prescription medicines, except those who manufacture the medicines, i.e. those who should know best. i am therefore glad that we have established that they have not only the right but actually the duty to disseminate certain basic information. they must also contribute, since they are, after all, the ones who have much of the information. i would just like to say to the commissioner that i am very pleased to see that you and i seem to agree on all the points that are central to me in this work. i think the commission and parliament are now in agreement. there is a great deal of pressure on the council to take up this issue constructively and to move forward. to be honest, even on the points where the commission indicated that it had objections to the proposal, i would say that the spirit of what we want to achieve is very close, for example in the case of printed material, and the possibility of helping countries with constitutional problems, including sweden, to solve them in the proposal. i would like to conclude by addressing those colleagues who do not think that we should have an exception for doctors and the information that doctors should disseminate. i myself think that a doctor who sees a clinical trial published by a company should have the right to give it to a patient if the doctor considers the information relevant, or that a doctor who finds a leaflet in a language other than the official language of that member state should have the right to print out that information and give it to a patient. but then we must vote for doctors to decide for themselves and for this directive not to regulate what doctors should give to patients. it's always the doctors' responsibility, and we're not here to regulate that.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. women and children are victims of war and conflict. violence, rape, torture and sexual abuse against women and children are weapons of war and conflict. women have now been made visible as victims, and they are victims. this has been demonstrated, among other things, by the appointment of the un special representative, ms margot wallström. but women are not just victims; they are key actors in peace and security work to prevent conflict. they are indispensable to the work of building peace and democracy after war and conflict. they are active in rebuilding the countries. however, despite the fact that it has been ten years since the un resolution was adopted, women are still only made visible as victims of violence. they are invisible in the vital reconstruction work to bring about peace and democracy. although we now know how important women are in this work, it is still men who have the total influence on the decisions. it is time to make women's capacities visible, including in peace and security work. the eu must require gender mainstreaming in its aid and grants for reconstruction.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. this is not an uncomplicated matter. it is therefore important that we establish a well-balanced position on the part of parliament. there are two overarching aspects to consider. on the one hand, it is unreasonable to continue this artificial respiration of this non-competitive mining industry in the long term. for both environmental and competitive reasons, it is not sustainable to ensure the survival of unprofitable coal mines through public support schemes. it is therefore logical that the subsidies for this activity are now being phased out. on the other hand, the elimination of subsidies will be a blow not only to the tens of thousands of coal miners who are forced to seek new jobs, but also to their families and to all others who depend on the mining industry. it will be a very difficult transition for the people living in the regions concerned. weighing up these two aspects is not easy, but i think the commission has found a sensible balance in its proposal. the subsidies are being removed, but in an orderly fashion, taking account of both employment and the environment. the regions concerned will have to face a difficult challenge with the abolition of subsidies, but at the same time the proposal opens up the possibility of wide-ranging social and environmental measures to make this regional conversion process as efficient as possible. it is vital that all these opportunities are fully exploited by national and regional authorities. a large-scale investment in active labour market measures and in thorough environmental remediation is a prerequisite for the final result to be acceptable for these regions. in the debate so far, three issues have been the focus. first, it has been argued that the coal mines which become competitive during the period of closure should be able to continue to operate. in my view, it would be wrong to open up that possibility, since the aid to be given must be used correctly and be based on a definitive closure. secondly, the final year of the closure aid has been discussed. in this context, it is important to note that the current regulation has been in place since 2002 and that everyone was aware that the exceptions to the competition rules would expire this year. so there were no surprises in this. i can be flexible about the exact year. thirdly, there has been a split of opinion on the environmental and sustainability aspects of parliament's position. i think that these should be as clear as possible and certainly more prominent than in the text of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it is very important that we send the right signal at this point.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as regards state aid to the coal industry, i believe that we should have the task of doing everything we can to make the european economy as competitive as possible. it is true in one area after another. we must have that as a target for the automotive industry, the engineering industry, the medical industry. what is necessary for our success is that we are able to transform our economy to meet the demands of modern competition and the global economy. it is against this background that i have serious doubts about the extension of state subsidies to unprofitable coal mines. it means that at the government level we are tying money to activities that are neither profitable, nor can provide the jobs that are being talked about, nor contribute to an improved environment. it also means that the transformation we need to achieve real competitiveness is slower. it means that we are neglecting to develop in other areas. it also means that after years have passed, people are still employed in industries that do not offer long-term security and a chance to earn a living. it also means that, as the years go by, the regions we are talking about will still be dependent on the use of coal mining in what are unprofitable coal mines. in view of this, i think we should support the commission's proposal and we will vote in favour of it.
in writing. we social democrats voted against the fisheries agreement with the solomon islands. we consider that the follow-up to the agreement is inadequate and that the agreement does not take proper account of the environment in relation to overfished stocks.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. at the same time, we believe that it is necessary to make substantial efforts to promote employment and the environment in the regions affected by the closures likely to result from the removal of subsidies. on the whole, we think that the commission's proposal in this case is balanced and takes both of these aspects into account. the subsidies are being phased out, but in an orderly fashion, taking account of both employment and the environment. that is why we have voted in favour of the commission's line throughout. as regards the question of the reopening of mines which become profitable during the period of closure, we share the commission's view that it would be wrong to include that possibility. in order to use the aid granted properly, they must build on a definitive closure plan. as regards the exact end-year of the closure aid, we do not have strong preferences, but nevertheless consider that the commission's 2014 is more appropriate than the 2018 proposed by the rapporteur.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it to make their own decisions. we would, however, like to stress that we believe that great caution should be exercised in the harmonization of the various legal training courses in the member states and emphasize that such harmonization is not within the framework of the stockholm programme. furthermore, we do not believe that bilingualism should be required for the practice of law. finally, we would like to stress that the autonomy of the parties is of paramount importance in commercial contract law and should remain so.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it to make their own decisions. we would, however, like to stress that we believe that great caution should be exercised in the harmonization of the various legal training courses in the member states and emphasize that such harmonization is not within the framework of the stockholm programme. furthermore, we do not believe that bilingualism should be required for the practice of law. finally, we would like to stress that the autonomy of the parties is of paramount importance in commercial contract law and should remain so.
mr president, first let me say thanks to the belgian presidency because it is really trying, but they need to do a little bit more. the european parliament has shown very good will in accepting the figures for 2011 because we understand the economic situation in the member states. regarding commitments, it is even, in real terms, a reduction of the budget. we have also offered solutions to a number of practical things like iter institutions, like the financial supervisory authorities and the external action service; we have been constructive. but we do not accept that the economic crisis will be here for ever and that the crisis should set the limits for the future of europe. we do not accept that single-minded austerity is the way out. we do not accept that the crisis requires less europe or an anti-european agenda. more concretely we have criticised the lack of flexibility in the european union budget for years, and the commission agrees with us. so how can the solution to the budget problems suddenly be to restrict flexibility? how can the future of europe be to cut funding of mutually-agreed priority programmes and not fund new ones – iter is not the only priority – or even the most important ones. without reasonable flexibility we risk building up a mountain of problems for 2012 and 2013. let us try to avoid that. how can it be a problem to involve the european parliament in a constructive dialogue on the future financial framework and the next long-term budget? i do not understand. let us try again to find an agreement, but we must find a solution to flexibility that is not less ambitious than what we already have in the interinstitutional agreement. we must find an open and constructive procedure on the next financial framework. that is our red line. please, council, try again.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have a small oral amendment as the result of a last-minute compromise among groups and that is to amendment 13 where the text as it stands right now is ‘within 60 days after receipt of the notification’. that should be changed to ‘within 90 days after receipt of the notification’. this has been agreed among all the political groups.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the undersigned has acted in a previous professional career as a consultant for an interested party in these cases, i have today abstained from voting on these reports, namely a7-0289/2010 and a7-0290/2010.
in writing. - the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its opinion on the acta agreement; for example, i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution of march 2010 on the lack of transparency and openness in the negotiations and i have signed the parliament's written declaration on acta. the commission was then, as it is now, criticised for its lack of transparency in the negotiations, both by members of this parliament and by the citizens of europe. i think that parliament's previous statements today are sufficient and voted against all the motions for resolutions. it is important that parliament takes its responsibility for international agreements very seriously. the commission shall negotiate and sign the agreements. parliament has the right to be fully and immediately informed during that process and, after the commission has signed the agreement, has the right to accept or reject it. it is reasonable for parliament to clarify its position, as we have done in several ways, so that the commission does not negotiate agreements which have no support in parliament. the joint resolution called for the commission to present a number of time-consuming analyses before the agreement could be signed by the commission, which would risk creating a situation where other parties would begin to doubt whether europe is really a serious party to conclude international trade agreements. it would harm europe's ability to participate in the negotiation of international free trade agreements in the future.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lena kolarska-bobińska, for her very good and open cooperation. as a social democrat, it has been important for me to advocate a strategy for energy policy and energy supply in which the consumer perspective is clear, in which there is therefore transparency also in the market where energy is traded, and in which the climate crisis has consequences for our decisions to switch to renewable, sustainable and secure energy sources and energy systems. we have also had some success in this respect, and we are pleased about that. there has been better and clearer legislation on consumer rights and, as the commissioner says, on the right to buy energy at reasonable prices so that households can afford it. something must be done about energy poverty. there has also been a clearer wording on the climate issue, although there is still a lot to be done. i also think it is important that the responsibility of the member states for the energy mix, for example, is clearly identified in the strategy. the main disappointment is that the report lacks binding targets for energy saving and efficiency - it is a pity. the member states are unlikely to reach the 20% target, which is a very big failure by our standards. energy saving is one of the best ways of reducing dependence on imports, strengthening competitiveness and creating jobs. we shall come back to this from parliament in a different context, and we hope to have strong support from the whole house as well as from the commission.
mr president, we have enormous problems with the energy market and the grid in europe, not to mention that energy production is mainly based on fossil sources. if someone says implementation, implementation, implementation, i would say focus, focus, focus, and i would mention some examples. we still lack 50% of financing for the set-plan. we have budget negotiations that go in a totally different direction from this energy strategy. we had to fight – excuse me, i do not want to be taken out of the chamber – like hell for the eerp, energy efficiency and alternative fuels, and in research we have the same problem. the same week as we are discussing what is, i admit, in part a good strategy, commissioner, we are voting on a coal subsidy report that says that spain subsidises coal in an uncompetitive coal market to the tune of eur 50 000 per job, whilst the average is eur 17 000 per job. how can we be competitive and modern if we take decisions like this? it undermines the whole strategy.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we had very high expectations ahead of the copenhagen summit. the results weren't so good. the day we left copenhagen, the snow was pouring down, and it was very cold in the meeting room. it was not just copenhagen that was frozen, but the whole environmental debate. it can be said that the climate issue is further down the political agenda today than it was before copenhagen. it is sad, but the fact is that it is our task to ensure that the cancún meeting achieves better results, to take care of and upgrade the copenhagen result. how do we do that? we do this by taking a leading role as representatives of europe. that is exactly what the un climate chief, christina figueres, asked when she spoke to us, who are going to cancún from the european parliament, in a videoconference. we must show leadership, and we will do so by actually implementing everything we promised in copenhagen - not just almost everything, but everything. then we'll have to make sure we get more of them, of course. together with other concrete decisions in cancún on deforestation, on technology transfer and on a path forward for a second commitment period under kyoto, this could pave the way for an international climate agreement in 2011. i don't think we should have low expectations for cancún.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it might also be worth noting that africa has actually lifted itself up a bit lately. then we know there's a lot left. the economic crisis has shaken europe and continues to do so. we analyze the everyday, but we analyze very little of what has happened to the developing world because of the global economic crisis. i think it would be very urgent to have such an analysis made. how have the developing countries been affected by the economic crisis? i would also like to stress the importance of facilitating, or rather improving, the conditions for investment in developing countries, including european investment in developing countries. there is no lack of ideas and investment from the developing countries themselves, but there is a need for stability. it would be extremely positive if aid - or whatever we like to call it - could help to create stability for the ideas, projects and investments that could actually be of a domestic nature in developing countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that these three reports can be summed up by the fact that we are moving from seeing people as tools in the service of trade to seeing trade as a tool in the service of man. we want to get away from a logic where a euro of trade gains is equivalent to two euros of environmental losses, or two euros of social costs. the reports also contain many concrete proposals, such as the excellent proposal by mr saïfi for a world environmental organisation, the proposal to give the ilo more power, the proposal to introduce border duties as a means of reducing unfair competition and climate emissions, and the proposal to consult local communities before investing. this, commissioner, is not just good intentions to be taken to heart, but we now want to see concrete results of our demands. we want to see legislation when it's needed. we want to see modified implementation when necessary. we want the commission to take the initiative in international negotiations to improve the rules.
the questioner. - mr president! - what is it? we can see the consequences now. it is a pity that the commission did not take the opportunity to reform the tdi instrument in 2007 when talking about global europe, which was perhaps the original intention. as far as the question of lisbon and the decision-making procedure we should have is concerned, perhaps none of the existing ones are really suitable. however, we greens have no real problem with the question of implementation as long as the rules are clear, transparent and fair. i would stress that in this context it is also important to look not only at the interests of producers but also at the interests of consumers and the very purpose, as daniel caspary said, of stopping dumping below the real costs. i would stress here, however, that the real costs must include environmental dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the directive is not undermined. it has to be able to be included when we look at dumping cases. we were talking earlier about trade policy as an instrument to achieve other objectives. in this case, it may even be more effective to use anti-dumping measures to prevent carbon leakage within, for example, the ets. in today's system, there is a long list of hundreds of business sectors covering tens of thousands of companies with four different criteria for when to be exempted from the ets, etc., or get free allocation. in this case, it is much easier to initiate an anti-dumping proceeding when a european company is facing unfair competition due to a lack of environmental responsibility in other countries.
in writing. - we regret that the negotiations have so far been unsuccessful. despite the fact that the european parliament went to great lengths in the negotiations by accepting the 2011 council budget proposal, offering a solution to large and cumbersome funding projects such as the fusion research programme iter, and promising a quick yes to amending budget no 10, which means member states will get back more than €600 million - a minority of member states, including sweden, blocked further negotiations. the resolution stresses that the negotiations should continue, but also sets out requirements for the future. in order to avoid further budgetary crises and to manage the financing of key priorities such as climate policy and eu 2020, more flexibility is needed in the eu budget for the coming years. however, we do not believe that the overall level of the eu budget needs to be increased. to avoid the risk of a veto by parliament, if it is allowed to express its opinion only on a package already negotiated between the member states, we also believe that the european parliament should be allowed to participate in the preparatory negotiations on the next long-term eu budget after 2013 and in the discussions on its future financing - without, however, taking a position on the substance of the own resources question. finally, we would also like to stress that these demands do not go beyond the powers conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i regret that the negotiations have so far been unsuccessful. despite the fact that the european parliament went to great lengths in the negotiations by accepting the 2011 council budget proposal, offering a solution to large and cumbersome funding projects such as the fusion research programme iter, and promising a quick yes to amending budget no 10, which means member states will get back more than €600 million - a minority of member states, including sweden, blocked further negotiations. the resolution stresses that the negotiations should continue, but also sets out requirements for the future. in order to avoid further budgetary crises and to manage the financing of key priorities such as climate policy and eu 2020, more flexibility is needed in the eu budget for the coming years. i do not, however, believe that the overall level of the eu budget needs to be increased. to avoid the risk of a veto by parliament, if it is allowed to express its opinion only on a package already negotiated between the member states, i also believe that the european parliament should be allowed to participate in the preparatory negotiations on the next long-term eu budget after 2013 and in the discussions on its future financing - without, however, taking a position on the substance of the own resources question. finally, i would also like to stress that these demands do not go beyond the powers conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon, and although i was against the introduction of this treaty, i believe that we now have no choice but to accept the consequences of its ratification and to work in accordance with its provisions.
in writing. - in yesterday's vote in the european parliament, i voted in favour of the resolution on the cancún climate change conference (cop 16). i did so because the resolution deals with a highly urgent subject - that the eu should show wise political leadership in the climate negotiations. developing countries are particularly affected, and world leaders must do everything possible to ensure that climate change does not jeopardise the mdgs. i would like to stress in particular, however, that i voted against the wording of the resolution calling on the eu to propose in the negotiations a tax rate of 0.01% on financial transactions. such a tax is not the way forward and will not help developing countries to combat and adapt to climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint resolution on western sahara, b7-0675/2010. however, i find it extremely regrettable that the resolution fails to mention and criticise the illegal fisheries agreement between the eu and morocco, which allows european fishing fleets to operate in waters within the occupied western sahara territory.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is nothing more illogical than the death penalty - to kill someone to show that it is wrong to kill. the people of iraq have suffered tremendous oppression. first, there was the abuse and repression by the dictator saddam of dissidents and critics of the regime. then you have an occupying power, which is more interested in building up its armed forces than democracy. abuse and repression continue against those who criticize the occupying power. now the abuse and oppression of christians continues. there must be an end to the abuse and oppression in iraq. we have a responsibility in that regard. you could call this ethnic cleansing. that's what we're talking about here. people are being forced out of iraq. then we must ensure that the eu does not force them out of the eu. it's an obligation we have. we will not send iraqis back to a safe place of suffering and oppression.
mr president, i am so glad that in two days the people of albania and bosnia-herzegovina can finally celebrate the granting of visa-free travel to the eu schengen area – just before christmas. their happiness is my happiness. i have been fully committed to supporting and accelerating the visa liberalisation process for all countries of the western balkans and, finally, almost all of them will be able to enjoy the opportunity to visit and study in our countries for three months. our oral question to the commission has to be seen in a positive spirit. it is to make sure that this new freedom is not put at risk. the visa-free regime is not about asylum for political or economic reasons. it is not about permanent residence. it is not about a work permit. i would like to welcome the steps that commissioner malmström has already taken – in particular with the authorities of serbia and fyrom – showing the determination of the commission to keep the process on track and to ensure correct application of the regime. thank you for your response. now we have to continue working together to prevent and address any misinterpretation, misunderstanding or misuse. the responsibility continues to lie with the authorities of the region. we welcome the fact that albania and fyrom have already successfully launched an information campaign, and we encourage all the countries in the region of the western balkans to do the same and to step up measures to prevent abuse. we ask the commission to continue monitoring, as it does already, and to report to us. developing people-to-people contact, as you have already said, is essential for democracy and stability in the region. let us not put that at stake in a european perspective. my commitment continues to be whole-hearted.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there has been a lot of talk about equal rights in this debate. it is also a question of balance or conflict, because that is where the choice will be, and it is also a question of long-term or short-term. the worst case scenario is that the exemption opens up a new form of slavery. we know what the change in the posting directive from a minimum to a maximum directive has meant in terms of disrupting the order and balance of the labour market. with these exceptions, it's not getting better, it's getting worse. it will mean social disasters. whole industries will choose to recruit seasonal workers in ways that will affect the entire labour market and that will be wage-depressing and conflict-creating. i would appeal to the members of other political groups, such as the alde group and the ppe group, to support the amendments tabled by the s&d group. it is the only way to ensure that exceptions do not create these difficult social conflicts.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mr claude moraes, who, in his usual high-quality manner and with a sincere desire to promote humanitarian and human principles, has drawn up the report on which we are to take a position. people who have been granted international protection in a member state will often stay there for a very long time, perhaps for the rest of their lives, as the vulnerability and persecution in the country they fled tends to persist for a very long time. thus, many who have been granted international protection find themselves in the same situation as those who are considered refugees. reasonably, too, one should be counted as a resident of a country after living there for five years. this was also the approach of both the commission and parliament. the council wanted something different, which i regret. i would also like to stress that family members of the person granted international protection must have their own opportunities to shape their lives. for example, in the case of an expulsion, the family must be given the choice of whether to go with them or to stay. i am glad that parliament will now adopt this report. i regret that the council has not agreed to the so-called correlation tables, but i welcome the fact that we are moving forward with the reports to be included in the common european asylum package. the hope is that the council will now take a more listening attitude. we all have the same deadline to meet, and it's 2012. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. otherwise the word solidarity will soon lose its meaning. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, again for his good work and for his very fine, if not excellent, cooperation with this report.
mr president, i would like to talk about the last indent of paragraph 25, which will be up for a separate vote and which i hope we will be able to delete from the report. this indent says that when search engines display ads in connection with a certain search word – i.e. somebody types in a search word and that search word is a brand name – this should require the authorisation of the brand owner. this may sound sensible on the surface, but it goes completely against trademark law as it stands. first of all, trademarks are registered in 45 different classes of goods and services and you can have the same mark in different classes in the same register. this would, for instance, mean that if somebody wants his ad displayed connected with the word ‘golf’, that would require volkswagen to authorise it for everybody. the second problem is the sheer number of trademarks. there are millions of trademarks in europe. there are 600 000 at the ohim in alicante alone, and many others, so if somebody wanted to advertise something connected to the word ‘silver’, he would probably have to get clearance from thousands of trademark owners. this is simply not practical. if this were enacted – which i hope it will not be – it would pretty much kill off the search engine business in europe, and it would kill off legitimate advertising and legitimate competition. so i ask colleagues to vote... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. − in 2010, people are bought and sold as slaves in europe. this is despite the fact that slavery was outlawed more than 250 years ago. they are forced into prostitution, forced labor, or begging. suddenly they have an owner, to whom they are absurdly often considered to owe a debt. trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious crimes in the world and is unfortunately growing in scale. it is a gross violation of human rights which we in the eu defend loudly and fight every day to uphold. i would therefore like to begin by thanking commissioner cecilia malmström for having so quickly produced a legislative proposal on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings. i would also like to thank my colleague from the femm committee, mrs edith bauer, for her good cooperation, and all the shadow rapporteurs who worked on the directive. finally, a big thank you to the rest of the staff who have done a fantastic job. trafficking in human beings is the fastest growing transnational crime today. according to the un report "trafficking in persons" for 2009, human trafficking is the second most lucrative activity for criminal networks, after arms trafficking. it is clear that a single country cannot solve the problem of trafficking in human beings on its own. trafficking in human beings occurs in all countries of europe and traffickers move their victims across national borders on a daily basis. that is why we must work together and have as equal legislation as possible in this area. it is therefore also good that an eu coordinator for the fight against trafficking in human beings is proposed, who will review and coordinate the eu's work with the national coordinators. to tackle the problem of trafficking in human beings, we need to have penalties that reflect the gravity of the crime and that really bite the skin off those who profit from trafficking in human beings. i think we have made a good deal of progress with the proposals for penalties contained in the proposal. it is also proposed that member states should confiscate the proceeds of crime of traffickers in a way that is legally secure. but punishing the perpetrators is not enough. the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings must also be improved. without victim protection, we will never be able to prosecute the traffickers. victims should receive the help they need and, above all, it is important to create a safe environment that makes them choose to cooperate with the police. there are also proposals for legislation on the extended protection of children exposed to human trafficking, and i am very pleased about that. since 79% of trafficking victims are women and sexual exploitation is by far the most common form of trafficking, it is crucial to have a gender perspective on legislation and to analyse all proposed measures from a gender perspective. if we are to ultimately get to the bottom of this problem, we have to do something about the inequitable distribution of power between men and women. gender inequality is a contributing factor to the vulnerability that leads to trafficking. to really tackle the problem of trafficking in human beings, all member states must put a lot of effort into prevention. it is basically a question of reducing the demand for services from victims of trafficking in human beings in our countries. if we can reduce demand, we can reduce the supply of services. that means we need to get to the people who make the trafficking profitable. we therefore proposed that it should be mandatory for all member states to criminalise those who knowingly use the services of victims of trafficking in human beings. under current eu law, it is a criminal offence for employers to exploit victims of trafficking in human beings. the same principle should apply to private individuals who exploit victims. unfortunately, we didn't get to the end of the proposal. member states are thus not obliged to criminalise, but they are required to report on the measures they have taken to meet the demand for services from victims of trafficking in human beings. however, we have put the matter on the agenda and at eu level we have received support for our proposal from the responsible committees in parliament, but also from experts, the police and ngos. with the agreement we are voting on today, i think we have come a long way. let us now work together to put an end to modern slavery and human trafficking in europe. we must not give up, because the right of people to decide their own life and their own body is a human right that cannot be bought and sold for money, like shoelaces or bananas.
the rapporteur. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i hope that in future we will also be able to improve this legislation and to strengthen the common eu rules against trafficking in human beings. but we must not forget that we must continue to work at all times on what is really the basis and root of all trafficking in human beings, namely poverty, social exclusion and demand. we must do more to tackle these problems, particularly the problem of trafficking in human beings. like i said before: we can't give up. the right of people to determine their own life and body is a human right that, unlike any other commodity, cannot be bought and sold for money. the fight against trafficking in human beings in europe and the rest of the world continues. thank you for all your support.
in writing. - legal immigration to eu member states is important for economic development. labour immigration can increase competitiveness and vitality, and in view of the demographic challenges facing the eu with an ageing population, it is important to adopt a flexible immigration policy. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal to introduce a single application procedure for third-country nationals applying for work and residence permits. it would simplify the complex administrative formalities of receiving migrants. it would also enable the labour markets of our member states to respond to current and future labour needs and offer a tool to combat exploitation and discrimination against these workers. we were opposed to the amendments tabled on the basis of supplementary documents which would have made the proposal contradictory and pointless. having a single application procedure and a single document loses its meaning if all member states can issue and require additional documents. the amendment to allow member states to issue a document supplementing the residence permit which can be updated or revoked when the situation on the labour market changes was voted in favour. we were not satisfied with the text and preferred to adopt the proposal but to go to second reading, so we voted in favour of including the comparison tables, against the wishes of the council. they did not pass either, and when we found ourselves in a situation where a positive vote on the report would have meant adoption at first reading of a text which we felt undermined the whole proposal for a single document instead of several within the eu, we chose to vote against the proposal.
in writing. - we support the common cohesion policy and consider it to be important for european integration. in a time of great contradictions within the eu, it is important to stick together. however, we believe that regional policy should be primarily the responsibility of the regions and the member states and that eu support should be concentrated on the poorest regions and on the various territorial cooperation programmes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is very gratifying that in these difficult times the council and parliament have been able to agree on a budget for 2011. the budget is a good compromise in that we have been able to keep a low rate of growth, but have still found reasonable resources for our priority areas. i would like to thank our rapporteurs, mrs sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska and mrs helga trüpel, and the belgian presidency for their very constructive work. i am concerned about the long-term prospects, because in the long run it is unreasonable for member states to entrust the eu with new tasks but not to agree on how to finance them. this will be a major problem in 2012 and 2013 and, of course, in future financial frameworks. because it is now clear that a minority of wealthier net-payer countries, some of them with eu-sceptic governments, want to slash the eu budget at any cost, no matter the consequences. this is an unreasonable attitude, especially as they themselves are pushing hard for increased spending in certain areas, such as the it project, and cannot even indicate where the savings should be made. we're going to cut farm subsidies? should we save on the structural funds? some people want to, but most people say no. the problems we face in the future are really an internal, political problem within the council and between member states with different attitudes towards the eu and its budget in the future. the most controversial issue is the question of future flexibility mechanisms. for us social democrats, this is about two things. first of all: it is a matter of principle to defend an interinstitutional agreement which we have had since 1999 and which has worked very well. no parliament in the world will accept a diminished influence, especially if there are no strong reasons for it. the council has not been able to present any such reasons for the reduction in flexibility. the treaty of lisbon does not preclude a new agreement with the same content as the current one, but it is a matter of the political will of the member states. secondly: as margins shrink at the end of the budgetary period, the need for flexibility will also grow as new tasks grow. this has been pointed out by the commission in its evaluation of the current framework. despite all the factual arguments in favour of greater flexibility and despite the fact that it should be easier to use flexibility, the council has gone in the opposite direction. this is not acceptable. we know today that there are member states which see the current battle for reduced flexibility as preparation for the big battle, with a drastic slaughter of the eu budget. if this is the council's line for the future, i am afraid we are facing a more permanent budgetary crisis, because we will not accept that. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
mr president, of course i understand that, but there is a difference between those who are net payer member states and those who are net beneficiary member states. we must understand that. you could easily say that the uk, the netherlands, even my own member state, sweden, would gain from a cut in the eu budget. but look at those member states who are really having problems now. look at greece, portugal and ireland. they would lose if the eu budget were cut because it actually makes a contribution to their economies – not least via the structural funds and other parts of the budget as well – so i do not think that is a fair way to act.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also want to start by thanking bendt bendtsen. the conclusion is very clear in the report. we need binding energy efficiency targets as soon as possible, and this is important for a number of reasons: economic, competition, employment, environmental and climate reasons. commissioner oettinger raised the issue of language. it is about saving energy or making it more efficient, and the question is what are we really talking about? in my country, we have a saying: it's stupid to light a fire for the crows. that is, we should not use our energy resources in such a way that we get an inadequate return on them. it's pretty obvious, and several of you have been into the balance between energy production and the cost of it, risk taking with it and the consumption of energy. of course, we'll have to be as smart as possible. how then to measure the objectives the commissioner has mentioned? as in any other context where we have common ambitions at global or european level, we need to agree on a common method of measurement and then decide on binding targets. what we're testing now is the inefficiency of not having binding goals and using the step-by-step method to shoot a change into the future. i think we should stop doing that, and i think we should support bendt bendtsen.
madam president, i cannot understand why the socialists are trying to escape from the responsibility of socialist policies. it is true that the reasons for the deficits we see in europe are different. it is also true that socialist governments have entered into budget deficit problems because of a deliberate policy of increased spending and increased deficits. we had this debate in parliament in the spring of 2009 and we had it in a number of member states. i remember the swedish social democrats criticised the swedish government for not increasing the deficit and the spending. then we have seen what has happened. this is for me a reason why we need stable rules regarding the stability pact but also stable rules regarding the consequences. we cannot have a situation where member states which are causing problems for financial systems and causing increased interest rates are allowed to escape from the consequences by letting other citizens pay for those interest rates. we need to have stability, and eurobonds will not be a solution to that problem. we can have eurobonds for other reasons. maybe. as for the financial mechanism, it must be financed and based upon the risks that member states are creating. if you take a bigger risk, run a bigger deficit, then you also need to finance the financial mechanism a little bit more. that is a way of taking responsibility for deliberate policies. do not forget that the consequences we see in a number of countries are the consequences of the debates we had in national parliaments, and in this parliament, when some of us argued for increased spending. now we see the bitter results. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
(mr schulz continued speaking, with his microphone turned off) madam president, i hope i can proceed without further interventions. first of all my message is very much to you, mr schulz, because i want you to remember what you argued here in this parliament two years ago. you argued that the union and the member states should increase their spending. the problem is that some of the member states have had socialist governments, and in all these governments, in all these countries, we have seen the deficit going up a result of the policies you advocated. mr schulz, can you deny that? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
madam president, i want to remind colleagues here that i said there are a number of different reasons for the deficit problems we have, but i also said it is true – and neither mr schulz nor his colleagues have denied this – that we have seen these problems coming up in all socialist governments because it was a deliberate policy. i absolutely agree if we are talking about ireland for example, that there were huge mistakes, but the interesting thing is that it was a deliberate policy to increase spending and deficits in order to meet the crisis and the problems, and now we see the results. that is the message to mr schulz and others. (the speaker agreed to take three blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
madam president, this discussion has clarified some of the things that we need to remember. let us not forget my first point, which is – and it is interesting to note that none of my socialist colleagues have denied this – that all the socialist governments which implemented socialist policies have run into deep deficit crisis. we now see the crisis coming to country after country because of a deliberate policy that mr schulz and others defended in this parliament two years ago. we can look at the records of this parliament and see that this was exactly what was said in the debate here by you, mr schulz, and by your colleagues. now you can see the bitter result. i wanted to underline that. i note that all you have to say is, ‘yes, you are right but other countries also have problems’. however, you are not arguing against my main point, that your policies created the problems. that is worth remembering. i think it should be put on the record. mr lamberts also draws attention to these problems. but the interesting thing is that, while it is true that a number of countries have problems because of the financial crisis, it is also true – as i think mr lamberts will recognise and appreciate – that in most of the countries which are taking a stable view on public finances, the governments are non-socialist. i do not think that you, or anyone else in this chamber, can point to a socialist government that has not run into deficit problems.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? before the decision to adopt the lisbon treaty, politicians spoke enthusiastically of the opportunity that the citizens' initiative would bring. now we must ensure that this becomes a powerful reform for democracy and not a toothless document. i was rapporteur for the libe opinion and i was happy to put forward proposals that would make things easier for the citizens. for example, we wanted to involve young people, and so we proposed a 16-year age limit to spark an initiative. it's been 18 years, which i regret, but we're still talking about young people. we also extended the timeframe to 24 months. it's been 12 months, but i'm still happy to compromise, because i'm a fundamentally positive person. we do, however, recognise that it will require a great deal of work on the part of those who put forward initiatives, but i hope that our challenge will be to ensure that citizens' initiatives are received with respect and in a constructive and positive spirit in the eu institutions. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the very good cooperation on this important initiative.
madam president, as shadow rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs i have been fully committed to helping shape this new right to political initiative for the citizens of europe with a view to really empowering the people. i support the final compromise and congratulate mr lamassoure. it makes it user-friendly, simple and accessible for citizens. i welcome especially the transparency as regards both political and financial support. however i regret that financing from political parties and groups is allowed and national politicians are allowed to be initiators. i do not want to spoil the party here, colleagues, but let us be realistic. there is a risk that the democratic process in europe could not only be boosted but also derailed, and the citizens’ initiative could be exploited, if not hijacked, by extremists and populists. i think we all have now to take our shared responsibility and make sure it is really used for the citizens. i call upon elected politicians in member states to respect the fact that they have representative democracy to express their views and this initiative is for citizens. i call upon the commission to properly inform citizens to avoid raising false expectations, and to be tough as regards the admission criteria. i call upon the media to play their role in giving correct information, and on member states to respect personal data so that the people will feel enough trust to participate. i really hope that we will be able to give our citizens the chance to be part of this debate and enjoy using this instrument.
mr president, advertising is a crucial part of a well-functioning internal market to foster competition and give choice to consumers. i voted in favour of the report on advertising. it does not propose new legislation or regular advertising nor does it control or limit the internet. the report contributes to raising awareness on the need for responsible advertising to combat unfair commercial practices in advertising and to respect consumers’ personal data and privacy. i call on the business community to take their share of responsibility with self-regulation, with voluntary actions to avoid misleading, hidden and intrusive advertising. i especially appeal for children to be freed from advertising. stop using batman, spiderman and bamse against our children.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. it is a modest budget, but it also includes important investments in research and youth work, the necessary aid to palestine, and the creation of a new eu external action service and new financial supervisory authorities. however, we abstained from voting on both the texts and the proposed budget lines for new own resources for the eu. we are in favour of a review of the eu's own resources system and an inquiry into a financial transaction tax, but we believe that we currently have too little information to be able to take a detailed position on the matter. whatever the design of a new system for eu revenue, we would like to stress that it must be budget-neutral and respect the competence of the member states in the field of taxation.
in writing. - when the european parliament voted today on the proposal for a council regulation implementing enhanced cooperation on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation, i chose to abstain. in my view, family law, for example the regulation of divorce, is an area in which the principle of subsidiarity should be upheld and in which each member state should make its own decisions. the cooperation covered by the report is voluntary for the eu member states and currently involves 14 countries. sweden is not one of them. it is not entirely appropriate for me, as a swedish mep, to express my opinion on a body of rules which only covers cooperation from which sweden is excluded.
one of the candidates for the sakharov prize, dawit isaak, is still being held without trial in eritrea. he's been doing that for 3,370 days. the accession to the european convention on human rights means that the eu has a greater opportunity to seriously demonstrate its commitment to and defence of human rights also outside the eu's borders. i appeal to you, catherine ashton, to use this opportunity to put more pressure on eritrea to release the european prisoner of conscience, dawit isaak. we must now show that we are serious and we must have a clear message to the president of eritrea. it must be an uncompromising demand that all the negotiations with eritrea end with the release of dawit isaak. i trust you. it's like michael cashman said: i believe, i trust in you, lady ashton.
